Congress Certifies Biden Victory; Trump Pledges 'Orderly Transition' On Jan.
ET Congress certified President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris' victory early on Thursday, the end of a long day and night marked by chaos and violence in Washington, D.C.
Extremists emboldened by President Trump had sought to thwart the peaceful transfer of power that has been a hallmark of modern American history by staging a violent insurrection inside the U.S.
Freedom wins, and this is still the people's house." Biden and Harris finished with 306 electoral votes, while Trump and Pence had 232.
It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency.
He said that even though he disagrees with the outcome, "there will be an orderly transition on January 20th." "I have always said we would continue our ...
While this represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history, it's only the beginning of our fight to Make America Great Again!" Dozens of Republican House lawmakers, along with some Republican senators supportive of Trump, had planned to object Wednesday to the electoral votes of as many as six states that backed Biden.
But late Wednesday night, some Senate Republicans withdrew their objections.
Each objection requires the backing of a member of both the House and the Senate to be considered.
Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia all said that they would stand down.
Missouri Republican Sen.
"In that case, the objection cannot be entertained," Pence said repeatedly, chairing the proceedings in his role as president of the Senate.
So the count continued, state by state, with Vermont's three electoral votes putting Biden and Harris over the 270 mark, until finally Wyoming's three electoral votes were tallied for Trump and Pence.
How the chaos unfolded The process to affirm Biden's victory began in the early afternoon.
But as the process began, a mob of pro-Trump extremists stormed the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon, bringing the counting of the electoral votes to a halt.
One woman was killed by a Capitol Police officer in the Capitol.
police said three other people died from medical emergencies in the surrounding area.
Around 8 p.m.
ET, hours after the Capitol was breached, lawmakers were cleared to return to finish debate and tally the Electoral College votes.
In separate speeches in their respective chambers, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell vowed to press ahead with the business at hand.
Some of those efforts were based on unproven claims of fraudulent vote counts, while others were founded on baseless conspiracy theories.
Trump had been particularly focused on Pence's role, publicly ratcheting up pressure on his vice president in recent days - including as he addressed supporters on Wednesday - to back his efforts to reverse the 2020 election results.
"After this, we're going to walk down - and I'll be there with you - we're going to walk down, we're going to walk down to the Capitol," Trump said earlier Wednesday, "and we're going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women, and we're probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them." As the mob drew down on the Capitol, Trump remained largely silent and did not make widespread remarks condemning the violence, or attempts to quell it.
Later Wednesday, he tweeted that "these are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long." Twitter later demanded that the tweet and video be removed, and the platform temporarily locked the president's account, threatening to permanently suspend it.
Condemnation of the president For his part, Biden called on the president to direct his supporters to end what he described as an "unprecedented assault" on democracy that "borders on sedition." "I call on President Trump to go on national television now to fulfill his oath and defend the Constitution and demand an end to this siege," Biden said in brief remarks.
Rep.
"We can't allow him to remain in office, it's a matter of preserving our republic," she wrote.
He must be removed from office and prevented from further endangering our country and our people.
Brian Fitzpatrick said in a tweet.
"He lit the flame of incitement and owns responsibility for this." And Arkansas Sen.
Tom Cotton said that it's "past time" for Trump to "accept his defeat, quit misleading the people, and repudiate mob violence."
