Fast food giant McDonald's is facing pressure from both workers and investors, who are increasingly unhappy with the firm's business strategy.
Hundreds of fast food workers and supporters converged in front of McDonald's corporate headquarters on Thursday morning before the company's annual shareholder meeting.
They demanded the fast food giant raise wages to $15 per hour, from $9.
McDonald's - the once invincible-seeming US corporate food giant whose arches are seen across the globe - is struggling, as health-conscious consumers eschew its food in the US and workers stage day-long protests against the company.
McDonald's banned media from attending the event, and has sought to dismiss both worker complaints and investor efforts to change the management of the firm.
Some protestors carried oversize checks with the weekly wages of "actual McDonald's workers" - $62.18 and $34.07.
They said they were energised by the Los Angeles' city council's announcement on Tuesday that it had voted to increase the minimum wage in the city to $15 per hour by 2020.
Many experts have said that the group has been successful in exerting pressure on firms such as Walmart, Target, and others to raise wages.
"But I don't think McDonald's, without all the protests, would have acted.
"I think the workers [who], really quite courageously, went out on strike have really inspired and moved something that's very big and will have long-term repercussions." Lawrence Yancy, a lifelong Chicagoan, has worked in fast food since he graduated high school in 1989, after which he got a job at Wendy's.
"I'm tired of struggling all the time," he told the BBC during a break from the protests at his small and slightly run-down one bedroom apartment in the Kimball neighbourhood.
He has worked as a grill cook at a Chicago McDonald's since January 2003 and says he was inspired to join the movement after labour organisers visited his store last year as part of an effort by the Service Employees International Union to get fast food workers to join a union.
He says he is frustrated that his wages have barely budged from the $5.50 per hour he started making when he first joined the company, to the $8.40 he makes now.
Long-term value McDonald's has dismissed the protests as not being indicative of workers at the firm and its franchises more generally.
This "is the latest instance in an $80m publicity campaign organized and paid for by the Service Employees International Union and its members," said the company in a statement.
"As has been the case in earlier protests, very few McDonald's or independent franchisee employees are participating." But many shareholders took pictures of the protests as they headed into the meeting - which could further add to investor concerns, as well as influencing voting at the meeting.
Despite the opposition, 61% of voting shareholders approved the proxy access bylaw.
"We'll be evaluating the advisory vote, and the board will consider it to determine what's appropriate," McDonald's said in a statement.
