Four people died and 64 were arrested as protesters forced their way into the building.
Hello and welcome to Al Jazeera's continuing coverage of the fallout from the chaos at the Capitol in Washington, DC.
Recommended Stories list of 3 items- list 1 of 3Facebook, Instagram block Trump's accounts 'indefinitely' - list 2 of 3The 25th Amendment: Can Trump be declared unfit for office?
- list 3 of 3Dow opens up 133 points as markets look beyond US Capitol siege UN rights office: Trump should disavow 'very dangerous' language The UN rights office said that President Donald Trump should disavow "very dangerous" language he and other political leaders have used about the US election result and the storming of the Capitol in Washington this week.
'We live in two Americas': LeBron James on Capitol unrest Los Angeles Lakers forward LeBron James said the violent mob of President Donald Trump's supporters forcing their way into the US Capitol showed that there were "two Americas".
James watched on television as the events took place, and on Thursday wondered what would have happened if the intruders had been mostly Black.
"And that was a prime example of that yesterday, and if you don't understand that or don't see that after seeing what you saw yesterday, then you really need to take a step back." The 36-year-old added: "There's no ifs, ands or buts: we already know what would've happened to my kind if anyone would have even got close to the Capitol, let alone storm inside the offices, inside the hallways." Erdogan calls US unrest 'disgrace for democracy' Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has called the US Capitol Building violence a "disgrace for democracy".
"I hope transition of presidency to Joe Biden on January 20 occurs as calmly as Trump says in his statement," he said.
Thursday's statement was accompanied by an image of a masked suspect wearing gloves and a hoodie, carrying an object.
"The FBI is offering a reward of up to $50,000 for information leading to the location, arrest and conviction," the agency's Washington field office added.
How Trump's presidency started - and how it ended Photos from the heart of American democracy show stark difference between Trump's inauguration and the deadly violence at the Capitol.
More here.
"Officer Sicknick was responding to the riots on Wednesday, January 6, 2021 at the US Capitol and was injured while physically engaging with protesters," police said in a statement announcing his death late on Thursday.
Read more here.
China state media says US facing 'internal collapse' China's state media was full of pictures on Thursday of pro-Trump supporters in the US Capitol, claiming some Chinese saw the violence as "karma" after what had happened in Hong Kong in 2019.
You can read more on that story here.
Taiwan says US democracy remains 'beacon of hope' Taiwan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has reiterated the territory's support for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris saying the events of the past 36 hours were testament to the "strength & resilience" of democracy in the US.
A senior administration official and a person familiar with the matter told Reuters that the officials who stepped down on Thursday were: Erin Walsh, senior director for African affairs; Mark Vandroff, senior director for defence policy; Anthony Ruggiero, senior director for weapons of mass destruction; and Rob Greenway, senior director for Middle Eastern and North African affairs.
Many foreign critics, as well as former US President George W Bush, made the analogy following the rioters' assault on the building as Congress met to certify the results of the presidential election.
Chao, who is married to Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, said in an email to staff that the mob attack "has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside." She said her resignation will take effect on Monday.
"There is no mistaking the impact your rhetoric had on the situation, and it is the inflection point for me," she wrote, adding her resignation was effective from Friday.
Other officials, including deputy national security adviser Matt Pottinger, a leading aide on Trump's China policy, have already resigned.
Trump had refused to concede the election to Biden as recently as Wednesday, when he encouraged his supporters to march to the Capitol where legislators had gathered to certify the results of the presidential election.
Thursday saw the president take a different tone.
With Congress certifying Biden's victory after the chaos at the Capitol, Trump said a "new administration will be inaugurated on January 20.
My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth orderly and seamless transition of power.
"I fully intend to stay in this fight for freedom, for our values and for the future of this great country," Loeffler said in a video concession.
Warnock, the son of a sharecropper, never held public office before.
He defeated Loeffler during a runoff race held on Tuesday.
Trump is set to l
