The Democrat demanded outgoing President Donald Trump "step up" and repudiate the violence.
A joint session of Congress confirming Mr Biden's election win has resumed after it was suspended by the mayhem.
US Vice-President Mike Pence started the session on Wednesday evening, saying it had been a "dark day in the history of the United States Capitol".
Earlier, the protesters fought their way past police into the complex, shouting and waving Trump and US flags as they roamed the halls, demanding the results of the presidential election be overturned.
A female civilian who was shot inside the US Capitol during the chaos has died, a spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police Department said.
Federal law enforcement official said two suspected explosive devices were found and were both rendered safe by the FBI and Capitol Hill police.
What did Biden say?
Speaking from Wilmington, Delaware, he also said democracy was "under unprecedented assault".
"I call on President Trump to go on national television now to fulfil his oath and defend the Constitution and demand an end to this siege," he said.
"To storm the Capitol, to smash windows, to occupy offices on the floor of the United States Senate, rummaging through desks, on the House of Representatives, threatening the safety of duly elected officials.
"It's not protest; it's insurrection." What did Trump say?
"We had an election that was stolen from us.
It was a landslide election, and everyone knows it, especially the other side.
The social media company announced it would keep the account locked for 12 hours, demanding he delete three tweets that it said could stoke violence and threatening "permanent suspension".
Facebook and Instagram followed suit.
He had urged supporters to head to the Capitol and said: "Our country has had enough and we will not take it anymore." What happened at the Capitol?
Police have not yet released her identity and it is unclear who fired the shot.
Local US media have named her as a San Diego-area US Air Force veteran and Trump supporter, Ashli Babbitt.
The mob - some of whom wore body armour - used chemical irritants to attack police, according to Washington Metropolitan Police Chief Robert Contee.
One climbed on to the Senate dais and shouted: "Trump won that election." Another protester was photographed sitting in House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office with a foot on the table.
Members of Congress - including Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris, who is a senator - were told to evacuate the building.
Several thousand National Guard troops, FBI agents and US Secret Service were deployed to help overwhelmed Capitol police.
Washington DC Metropolitan Police said five guns were seized.
At least 13 people were arrested.
There were also protests at state legislatures in Kansas, Georgia, Utah and on the other side of the country in Oregon and the north-western state of Washington.
"We're not [expletive] Antifa!" one man screamed at the police, referring to the loose coalition of "anti-fascist" activists that oppose Mr Trump.
The proceedings are usually brief and ceremonial but Republican lawmakers have been objecting to some results.
"Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme courage!" the president tweeted on Wednesday.
But in a letter to Congress, Mr Pence said that he had no "unilateral authority to decide which electoral votes should be counted".
Senator Kelly Loeffler, who lost her bid for election in Georgia's vote on Tuesday, said she could no longer in good conscience vote against certification as she had originally planned, citing the "abhorrent" invasion of the Capitol.
German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said: "Trump and his supporters must accept the decision of American voters at last and stop trampling on democracy." And former US President George W Bush said in a statement: "It is a sickening & heartbreaking sight.
