Here are some key insights.
H.E.
Kazuya Nashida, Ambassador of Japan to Thailand Can you tell us more about the history of relations between Japan and Thailand?
The relationship between Thailand and Japan is actually much longer than 135 years, unofficially.
I'd say it's more than 600 years.
So, Thailand is among the best countries for Japanese nationals.
Okay, talking of 135 years, we'd like to continue the current good relations with Thailand-not only in economic terms but in other aspects, as well.
So, we will strive to develop together.
To achieve this, we will continue to cooperate, hand-in-hand as equal partners.
What milestones come to mind, when we talk of bilateral relations between Japan and Thailand?
Although I only assumed my post here in December 2019, I can say that I do love it here.
However, after having lived here, I was so amazed that there are so many visitors coming from Japan, and so many Thai people going to Japan, as well.
The cultural exchange is so significant.
The last two years have actually been very quiet, activity-wise, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
In the same month, the highest leaders of both countries exchanged visits.
This is very significant, and now that COVID restrictions have eased, we anticipate more visits, moving forward.
As I said earlier, we look forward to achieving more milestones and to continuing our cooperation in various sectors.
However, there are changes underway.
Thailand is no exception from the global push to more environmentally responsible options, so they are now shifting progressively to Electric Vehicles (EV).
We also see the opportunity, as well as the need, to develop human resources, especially among the younger work force.
In the arena of continued cultural exchange, Japanese culture is already very well accepted in Thai society.
Just as an example, we have more than 4,000 Japanese restaurants here in Thailand.
It's quite natural already for Thai people to eat Japanese food; it's already part of their culture.
We need to always focus on finding and creating opportunities to continue our efforts to share our Japanese culture throughout Thailand, especially with the Thai youth.
H.E.
Our relations with Japan date back much longer than 135 years.
We've had trade relations with Japan from the Edo Period, and even as far back as the Ayutthaya Period, more than 600 years ago.
In September this year, we will celebrate the 135th anniversary.
So far, this has been a year of numerous high-level exchange visits-the past two years, COVID-19 prevented such visits.
On the occasion of the 135th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations, the two leaders saw merit in considering the elevation of the bilateral relations from a Strategic Partnership to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.
We have hundreds of Thai restaurants in Japan.
Before COVID-19, 1.8 million Japanese visited Thailand.
We all love each other.
You may have also heard about the Thai Festival.
Last year, though, we organized a small Thai festival, like a "Drama Festival," at our embassy.
From dramas, the interest in the Thai culture expanded into Thai food, tourism in Thailand, and T-Pop, which has become more and more popular now.
So, I think within these contexts, on all levels, we see the relations between the two countries growing even stronger and closer.
The exchange of visits between the two leaders in May 2022 is a recent milestone.
Furthermore, the visit of Prime Minister Kishida to Thailand to attend the APEC Meeting in November will also be a significant milestone in the Thailand-Japan relationship.
Now , we are going to expand this cup, not only for the tournaments in Tokyo, but also for the ones in Nagoya, Osaka and Fukuoka.
And we will also have one big elephant statue to be presented to the Nittaiji Temple in Nagoya, which is deeply rooted in Thai culture and historical ties with Japan.
I would also like to mention a milestone of cooperation, related to Japan's KOSEN system and their technical colleges.
We know that the Japanese industry is in need of technicians-they need the personnel.
In Bangkok, we have already established two centers that train technical personnel in the Japanese KOSEN way.
Japan is a leading investor; they have huge investments in Thailand.
Prime Minister Kishida visited one of these KOSEN-type institutes in Thailand early this year, in May.
Japan has become the biggest in
