Deliberate harassment of the wildlife, with a model or other means is forbidden under SFMYC club rules, illegal under SF Rec and Park rules, the San Francisco Municipal Code, and state and federal statutes as well.
Ein Ohrfeige für die Polizei, die fast jeden Protest mit Kameras verfolgt.
The circular border of the coat is formed by 25 leaves. Within the circle is a mahogany tree, in front of which is a shield tierced per pall inverted.  Within the shield are the tools of a woodcutter in the upper sections and a ship in the lower one.  These are symbolic of the importance of mahogany in the 18th- and 19th-century Belizean economy.
The internal replaceable (hot-swappable) CD-drive bay that supports a list of optional components, such as a CD-/DVD/Blu-ray drives, hard drive caddies, additional batteries, or device cradles.
Darin erklären die Richter die Videoüberwachung einer Großdemonstration im vergangenen September für rechtswidrig.
a. The security of Israel must be guaranteed ...  b. The internal debate within Israel must be resolved in order to define Israel's permanent legal boundary ...
Rund 50.000 Menschen hatten damals gegen Atomkraft protestiert - friedlich, wie es auch im Vorfeld zu erwarten war.
Caracas has one of the highest per capita murder rates in the world, with 76 homicides per 100,000 inhabitants.
In the spring of 1884 Levitan participated in the mobile art exhibition by the group known as the Peredvizhniki and in 1891 became a member of the Peredvizhniki partnership. During his study in the Moscow School of painting, sculpting and architecture, Levitan befriended Konstantin Korovin, Mikhail Nesterov, architect Fyodor Shekhtel, and the painter Nikolay Chekhov. Levitan often visited Chekhov and some think Levitan was in love with his sister, Maria Pavlovna Chekhova.[citation needed]
Trudeau introduced new financial aid programs on April 10, including the Canada Emergency Business Account (CEBA), which offers loans, interest-free until the end of 2022, of up to $40,000 for small- and medium-sized businesses. The CEBA was expanded on April 16 to make more businesses eligible.[how?]
Auch einzelne Polizisten sind mit Kameras ausgestattet.
Zahlen, wie viele Demos filmisch überwacht werden, nennt die Polizei nicht.
According to the 2019 Global Hunger Index, Yemen has the second-highest hunger score in the world, after the Central African Republic with a slight worsening of the hunger score since 2000 (increase from 43.2 to 45.9). For 2020, GHI estimates that the prevalence of wasting in children under 5 has increased from 13.3% to 15.5% and the prevalence of stunting has increased from 46.6% to 53.2% while overall child mortality has slightly decreased in the period of the civil war (compared to 2010).
Denn das Filmen schränke das Grundrecht auf Versammlungsfreiheit und das informationelle Selbstbestimmungsrecht ein.
"Wer damit rechnet, dass etwa die Teilnahme an einer Versammlung [...] behördlich registriert wird, und ihm dadurch Risiken entstehen können, wird möglicherweise auf eine Ausübung seiner entsprechenden Grundrechte verzichten", so die Richter in der am Dienstag bekannt geworden Entscheidung.
The eldest Crabtree son, Paul, last appeared during series 4 and the character was not recast due to the death of actor Stephen Watson on his honeymoon during the filming of series 4.
Für eine Einschränkung des Versammlungsrechts durch eine Videoüberwachung gebe es nur dann eine rechtliche Grundlage, wenn von der Versammlung eine "erhebliche Gefahr für die öffentliche Sicherheit oder Ordnung" ausgeht, erläuterte Michael Dolle, Sprecher des Verwaltungsgerichts.
"Wenn man davon ausgehen kann, dass es ein friedlicher Protest wird, darf die Polizei nicht filmen.
Insofern hat das Urteil auch Auswirkungen auf andere Demonstrationen." In Zukunft hängt es also an der Gefährdungsanalyse, die die Polizei im Vorfeld einer Demonstration erstellt, ob die Demo überwacht wird oder nicht.
Wie das in der Praxis umgesetzt wird, ist noch offen.
Unklar ist beispielsweise, ob der Veranstalter beim Anmeldergespräch im Vorfeld einer Demo über die Videoüberwachung informiert wird und dagegen - wie auch gegen Auflagen - im Eilverfahren vor dem Verwaltungsgericht klagen kann.
The Detroit Lions re-signed Bell on December 6, 2016, after starting running back Ameer Abdullah suffered a fractured foot.
Verlief also beispielsweise die Liebknecht-Luxemburg-Demonstration im letzten Januar friedlich, müsste die Polizei gute Gründe nennen, um ein Jahr später eine erhebliche Gefahr festzustellen.
Khusniddinova capped for Uzbekistan at senior level during the 2020 AFC Women's Olympic Qualifying Tournament.
Husband and wife team Hani Rashid and Lise Anne Couture co-founded Asymptote Architecture in 1989. The firm began with building designs in the United States, and subsequently expanded to international projects.
Little is known about the life of this animal, but the West Virginia captive breeding program and past survey efforts have provided some information.
By exploring the ideas, thoughts and achievements of the lives of 100 most influential Muslim rulers and conquerors, religious scholars and philosophers, writers and literary figures, scientists and explorers, military generals and freedom fighters, reformers and educationalists, this book goes through Islamic thought, history, culture and civilization.
LDS Church leaders have counseled church members that they should not have personal interpretations of, or become extreme in their observance of the Word of Wisdom. One church leader specifically warned that adding additional unauthorized requirements, emphasizing it with excess zeal, or making it a "gospel hobby" is a sign of spiritual immaturity and sometimes apostasy.
He married Joan Kalloch and the couple had three sons, Bruce, Scott and Todd. At the time of his death, Quackenbush also had seven grandchildren. He died of pneumonia and complications from Alzheimer's disease on September 12, 1999, at Chandler Hall Hospice in Newtown, Pennsylvania, at the age of 77.
Die Polizei teilte lediglich mit, dass das Urteil erst seit Montag vorliege und derzeit noch geprüft werde.
Rechtsanwältin Ulrike Donat, die die Kläger vertritt, kündigte allerdings an, mit der Klage notfalls bis vor das Bundesverfassungsgericht zu ziehen.
(Az.: VG 1K 905.09)
