Wird das Wort "Zivilgesellschaft" normalerweise ausgesprochen, blitzen hehre Ideen auf: Menschen, die ihr Ego zurückstellen, um sich politisch zu engagieren.
In 1972, she was the second woman elected to the AMEX Board of Governors, and the first woman to come from the securities industry. As a Governor, she successfully formulated a plan to attract companies to the AMEX.
Ray Mason was an Australian rugby league footballer who played in the 1950s for South Sydney as a halfback. He played for the club during their golden era in the 1950s, when the club won 5 premierships with Mason being a member in 3 of those premiership victories.
In addition, OW2 provides information dissemination and community building services for R&D collaborative projects funded by European or French research programs.
Oder mit Demonstranten, die zu Tausenden durch die Straßen ziehen, weil sie sich von einer Diktatur gegängelt sehen, deren Beschlüsse komischerweise mittels demokratischer Verfahren getroffen wurden?
Oder mit den Antiflüchtlings-Demonstrationen, die vor ein paar Jahren ihre Hochphase hatten?
It was treated as a synonym of Lichenaula phloeochroa, but DNA barcoding has shown this species to be distinctly separate.
During his career, Richards was a part of various art societies including, the Salmagundi Club of New York, Society of Independent Artists, and the Silvermine Artists Guild. He joined the latter guild in 1930.
Dass dieser Befund in Form einer Frage formuliert ist, beweist, wie schwer es noch fällt, sich einzugestehen, dass Gruppen wie "Querdenken" sogar sehr gut in das Bild zivilgesellschaftlicher Selbstorganisation passen.
Es handelt sich zumeist um mehr oder weniger spontan entstandene Bewegungen, die ihr politisches Anliegen mit einem emphatischen Begriff von Freiheit und Gleichheit verknüpfen, um dieses gegen die vermachteten Abläufe des Staatsapparates in Stellung zu bringen.
In dem Manifest einer ihrer Parteineugründungen, die den sprechenden Kurznamen "die Basis" trägt, heißt es in aller zivilgesellschaftlichen Fröhlichkeit: "Wir sind Demokraten.
Wir sind eine friedliche Bewegung.
The ideal that is sought when responding to a change in the functional requirements for a system is that it can be quickly determined:
Trotzdem versucht die Öffentlichkeit, es tunlichst zu vermeiden, Bewegungen wie "Querdenken" den Ehrenwimpel "Zivilgesellschaft" anzuhängen.
2018, 11 May, Sterling published the book: The Doorway to Strength: Turn a Door into a Strength-Building Multigym. The book is about how to improvise the use of a door and door jamb to perform exercises using an Iso-Bow. The exercises are based on the isometric system. The book is published through MajorVision Ltd., and it is co-authored with Helen Renee Wuorio.
As part of the way she uses the camera the film has few establishing shots or transition shots because she makes the case it physically separates a space from its moment in the film.
In der breiten Öffentlichkeit wurde das Wort "Zivilgesellschaft" in den 1990er-Jahren populär, nachdem in den Staaten des Warschauer Paktes bürgerschaftliche Massenbewegungen das Leben jahrzehntealter Diktaturen beendeten.
Zivilgesellschaft - das Wort versprach damals einen friedvollen dritten Weg zwischen Kapitalismus und autoritärem Staat.
The original cast included:  Margot Lander, Hans Brenaa, Svend Erik Jensen, Inge Sand and Inge Goth. Its ABT premiere at the 54th Street Theatre in New York took place on 5 October 1961 and featured dancers Toni Lander, Royes Fernandez, Bruce Marks, Eleanor D'Antuono and Elisabeth Carroll.
Der Mensch als gemeinschaftlich handelndes, politisches Wesen - in Habermas' Begriff der Zivilgesellschaft klingt unverkennbar das antike Bürgerideal an.
TIA's two core projects are now operated by Advanced Research and Development Activity (ARDA) located among the 60-odd buildings of "Crypto City" at NSA headquarters in Fort Meade, MD. ARDA itself has been shifted from the NSA to the Disruptive Technology Office (run by the Director of National Intelligence). They are funded by National Foreign Intelligence Program for foreign counterterrorism intelligence purposes.
Zable was born on 10 January 1947 in Wellington, New Zealand to Polish-Jewish refugee parents. They moved early in his life to Australia and he grew up in Carlton, Victoria.
The BHTV initiative was originated from Ministry of Industry and Trade of Indonesia as a mean to increase electronics export. It was started in 1986, but was forgotten when Indonesia faced economy crisis in 1997. It was then restarted by some people in Institut Teknologi Bandung.
Zueinander finden staatliche Macht und Gesellschaft, so der selbstbewusste Tonfall, erst wieder vermittels freiwilliger Zusammenschlüsse, die wie mit einem Megafon das politische System beschallen, wenn die Menschen in persönliche Bedrängnis geraten.
Hydrangea was then transferred to the South Atlantic Blockading Squadron 23 July 1864, and after repairing reported to Port Royal, South Carolina, 30 September.
Die Trennung von Staat und Gesellschaft ist im Begriff der Zivilgesellschaft vorausgesetzt.
As of the census of 2010, there were 586 people, 233 households, and 166 families residing in the village. The population density was 1,220.8 inhabitants per square mile (471.4/km2). There were 253 housing units at an average density of 527.1 per square mile (203.5/km2). The racial makeup of the village was 90.8% White, 1.0% African American, 0.2% Native American, 0.2% Asian, 6.8% from other races, and 1.0% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 9.7% of the population.
In February 2005, a $45 million expansion/renovation project was begun, to include a new three-story shop wing including a larger expanded art room and three learning labs; the new culinary arts kitchen, bakery, and public restaurant; and new academic classrooms, gym, locker rooms, fitness center administration/guidance/support services, and athletic fields. The new facilities opened in time for the start of the 2007-2008 school year.
Diese Festlegung ermöglicht wiederum der Gesellschaft, sich für ohnmächtig und die eigenen Beweggründe für idealistisch zu halten.
Staat bedeutet in letzter Konsequenz Machtmissbrauch, Zivilgesellschaft edle Gesinnung - diese eingeübte Asymmetrie erklärt die Abneigung, Bewegungen wie "Querdenken" in den Bereich der Zivilgesellschaft aufzunehmen.
Shoal Lake is located at the junction of highways 16, 21, and 42. It is serviced by the Shoal Lake Airport and Shoal Lake Water Aerodrome and by the Greyhound bus service (freight only).
