Congress Certifies Biden Victory; Trump Pledges 'Orderly Transition' On Jan.
ET Congress certified President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris' victory early on Thursday, the end of a long day and night marked by chaos and violence in Washington, D.C.
Extremists emboldened by President Trump had sought to thwart the peaceful transfer of power that has been a hallmark of modern American history by staging a violent insurrection inside the U.S.
Capitol.
"To those who wreaked havoc in our Capitol today, you did not win," Vice President Pence said once lawmakers reconvened after many spent hours in lockdown.
"Violence never wins.
He said that even though he disagrees with the outcome, "there will be an orderly transition on January 20th." "I have always said we would continue our ...
fight to ensure that only legal votes were counted.
While this represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history, it's only the beginning of our fight to Make America Great Again!" Dozens of Republican House lawmakers, along with some Republican senators supportive of Trump, had planned to object Wednesday to the electoral votes of as many as six states that backed Biden.
Each objection requires the backing of a member of both the House and the Senate to be considered.
Sens.
"I cannot now, in good conscience, object to the certification of these electors," Loeffler said Wednesday, drawing applause from some of her colleagues.
Loeffler was one of two Republicans who lost their races on Tuesday, giving Democrats control of the U.S.
Senate.
Missouri Republican Sen.
A similar result played out for the state of Pennsylvania, with both chambers voting to reject the challenge to Biden's victory there.
Republican House lawmakers also objected to the electoral votes in Georgia, Michigan, Nevada and Wisconsin, but no senator would join in those objections.
How the chaos unfolded The process to affirm Biden's victory began in the early afternoon.
But as the process began, a mob of pro-Trump extremists stormed the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon, bringing the counting of the electoral votes to a halt.
Lawmakers were evacuated from the building as the violent, chaotic scene played out, prompting a citywide curfew.
Wednesday night, D.C.
Around 8 p.m.
ET, hours after the Capitol was breached, lawmakers were cleared to return to finish debate and tally the Electoral College votes.
"We will not bow to lawlessness or intimidation.
We are back at our posts," McConnell said, adding, "and we're going to do it tonight." Trump's pressure The scene that unfolded at the Capitol on Wednesday was the culmination of months of efforts by Trump and his allies, publicly and privately, to overturn the results of the 2020 election.
Some of those efforts were based on unproven claims of fraudulent vote counts, while others were founded on baseless conspiracy theories.
Trump had been particularly focused on Pence's role, publicly ratcheting up pressure on his vice president in recent days - including as he addressed supporters on Wednesday - to back his efforts to reverse the 2020 election results.
Pence, though, said Wednesday that he did not have the power to change the outcome of the election or to unilaterally delay the certification of Biden's victory.
And the insurrectionists that disrupted the certification of the Electoral College votes did so after Trump spoke to them, demanding that they fight to "stop the steal" of the election - a false claim - and descend on the Capitol.
"After this, we're going to walk down - and I'll be there with you - we're going to walk down, we're going to walk down to the Capitol," Trump said earlier Wednesday, "and we're going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women, and we're probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them." As the mob drew down on the Capitol, Trump remained largely silent and did not make widespread remarks condemning the violence, or attempts to quell it.
Later Wednesday, he tweeted that "these are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long." Twitter later demanded that the tweet and video be removed, and the platform temporarily locked the president's account, threatening to permanently suspend it.
The president-elect also suggested that Trump was to blame for the violence, saying that "at the best, the words of a president can inspire.
At their worst, they can incite." As the chaos unfolded, some House Democrats have called for impeaching the president again during his final two weeks in office.
Rep.
Ilhan Omar of Minnesota wrote on Twitter that she was drawing up articles of impeachment.
Rhode Island Rep.
David Cicilline faulted the president for the violence that consumed the Capitol and said, "We should impeach and convict him tomorrow." Assistant Speaker Katherine Clark, D-Mass.
called the president "a traitor to our country and our Constitution" and called for him to be removed from office "and prevented from further endangering our country and our people." Donald Trump is a traitor to our country and our Constitution.
2/2 - Katherine Clark (@WhipKClark) January 6, 2021 Trump also faced critics within his own party for his role in egging on the mob.
"What happened today was nothing short of a coup attempt.
The President of the United States has been lying to his supporters with false information and false expectations," Pennsylvania Rep.
Brian Fitzpatrick said in a tweet.
Tom Cotton said that it's "past time" for Trump to "accept his defeat, quit misleading the people, and repudiate mob violence."
