On rare occasions, the Indian government-which prides itself on visions of universal digital literacy, online services, and biometrical identity schemes-still conducts certain official communications by radiogram.
An operator sitting at a radio transmitter taps out a message, and then a receiver spits out the transmission in another part of the country, generating an instant legal document.
Because Reyaz was handling a calf, Premi accused him of plotting to deliver the animal to local butchers.
"Cow killer!
Cow killer!
Fearing that Premi was about to rekindle more of the same, the government of Uttar Pradesh-which was then controlled by a democratic socialist party-moved to act.
District authorities arrested Premi and invoked a law called the National Security Act, which allows state governments to preemptively detain people who pose a threat to the public order.
But now, with a radiogram from Delhi, Indian prime minister Narendra Modi's central government was stepping in.
A sickly-sweet odor from the local sugar refineries hung in the air.
Others fiddled with smartphones.
Despite the cold, their quiet conversations crackled with energy.
At 6:15, when the steel gates slid open, they burst into cheers.
During his six and a half months in jail, Premi's beard had filled out, and now his mustache curled up at the tips, making his round, boyish face appear older.
"Look, look who is here!
That night, when he had settled in at home, he asked his family for a phone so he could check who had messaged him while he was in jail.
Sitting in his bedroom in Shamli, Premi pushed his SIM card into the small socket of a Lenovo A6000+.
When the phone screen came alive, he tapped the Facebook button to log in.
He used Facebook only occasionally, to chat with his cousins on Messenger, and otherwise preferred action in the street.
But as soon as Premi accessed his account, thousands of messages started downloading, along with thousands of notifications and requests.
He wanted to read the messages, but there were too many.
Before he could do anything, the phone froze.
He had to switch it off completely.
Later, he found the same crush of mentions and messages on WhatsApp and Twitter, a platform he had barely ever touched.
It took him a few days to scroll through it all and to process the scope and character of his new fame.
And now the Modi government's decision to free him had brought him back to the national spotlight.
His new fans seemed hungry for more.
"That was my introduction to the power of social media," Premi says.
Despite his initial skepticism toward a medium that was less physical than he preferred, he resolved to seize the momentum.
Shortly after his release, Premi took to Twitter.
"I am back again," he wrote.
At first I was based in New Delhi, the city where I had spent half of my life.
But shortly after Narendra Modi was elected prime minister in May 2014, I decided to take a transfer to western Uttar Pradesh-because I wanted to understand what was really happening beyond the capital's borders.
Polls had favored Modi's chances in the election for some time.
For one thing, there was the sheer, unexpected scale of the rout: Modi's coalition won such a commanding majority that the Congress Party, which had ruled India with few interruptions since independence, was driven into near insignificance.
But more than that, it was the underlying truth that was so difficult to absorb.
But somehow, during his more recent years in Gujarat, Modi had managed to rebrand himself as a sunny, pro-business techno-utopian, an abstemious leader with an intuitive grasp of 21st-century infrastructure and social media.
But the even more disturbing implication of Modi's election was that tens of millions of Indians had voted enthusiastically for his original brand: for the virulently Islamophobic, authoritarian rhetoric that his party spewed through lesser officials and, sub rosa, on vast WhatsApp lists.
But to do so, I didn't have to go particularly far.
Beyond its sheer size, it is an important bellwether in the country's fractious democracy.
The state is both the core of India's "Hindu heartland" and also home to an estimated 43 million Muslims, the largest such total in the country.
It was all, the analysis went,
