military said.
The strikes marked an escalation in a series of maritime attacks in the Mideast linked to the Israel-Hamas war, as multiple vessels found themselves in the crosshairs of a single Houthi assault for the first time in the conflict.
The U.S.
vowed to "consider all appropriate responses" in the wake of the attack, specifically calling out Iran, after tensions have been high for years now over Tehran's rapidly advancing nuclear program.
military's Central Command said in a statement.
The USS Carney, a Navy destroyer, detected a ballistic missile fired from Houthi-controlled areas of Yemen at the Bahamas-flagged bulk carrier Unity Explorer.
said.
About 30 minutes later, the Unity Explorer was hit by a missile.
Central Command said the Unity Explorer sustained minor damage from the missile.
Two other commercial ships, the Panamanian-flagged bulk carriers Number 9 and Sophie II, were both struck by missiles.
local time (1330 GMT), the Carney shot down another drone heading in its direction.
The Carney, an Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer, has shot down multiple rockets the Houthis have fired toward Israel during that nation's war against Hamas in the Gaza Strip.
It hasn't been damaged in any of the incidents and no injuries have been reported on board.
Houthi military spokesman Brig.
Saree did not mention any U.S.
warship being involved.
"The Yemeni armed forces renew their warning to all Israeli ships or those associated with Israelis that they will become a legitimate target if they violate what is stated in this statement." Saree also identified the first vessel as the Unity Explorer, which is owned by a British firm that includes Dan David Ungar, who lives in Israel, as one of its officers.
The Number 9 is linked to Bernhard Schulte Shipmanagement.
However, Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian threatened "that if the current situation continues, the region will enter a new phase" over the Israel-Hamas war.
Iran's top diplomat described his comments as coming after conversations with "resistance forces" in the region - a description Tehran uses for the Shiite militias it backs, including groups in Iraq, the Houthis and Lebanon's Hezbollah, as well as the Sunni fighters of Hamas.
All have threatened or attacked Israel, Iran's regional archrival, during the war.
has stopped short of saying its Navy ships were targeted, but has said Houthi drones have headed toward the ships and have been shot down in self-defense.
Washington so far has declined to directly respond to the attacks, as has Israel, whose military continues to try to describe the ships as not having links to their country.
The rebels still hold the vessel near the port city of Hodeida.
warship last week after it assisted a vessel linked to Israel that had briefly been seized by gunmen.
In 2016, the U.S.
launched Tomahawk cruise missiles that destroyed three coastal radar sites in Houthi-controlled territory to retaliate for missiles being fired at U.S.
Navy ships at the time.
___ Associated Press writers Tara Copp in Dallas, Lolita C.
Baldor in Washington, Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo and Dana Beltaji contributed to this report.
