Palestinian and Yemeni flags were raised onboard.
It was not immediately possible to verify the clip.
Israel said the vessel was a British-owned and Japanese-operated cargo ship and described the incident as an "Iranian act of terrorism" with consequences for international maritime security.
Israel's military, writing on X, said "the hijacking of a cargo ship by the Houthis near Yemen in the southern Red Sea is a very grave incident of global consequence".
It said the ship had left Turkey headed for India, and was "staffed by civilians of various nationalities, not including Israelis", adding: "It is not an Israeli ship." Iran's foreign ministry spokesperson, Nasser Kanani, said the Israeli accusations were "invalid" and "projection meant to escape from the situation they are facing".
Japan's top government spokesperson on Monday confirmed the capture of the Nippon Yusen-operated Galaxy Leader, adding that Japan was appealing to the Houthis while seeking the help of Saudi, Omani and Iranian authorities to work towards the swift release of the vessel and its crew.
"We strongly condemn such acts," the chief cabinet secretary, Hirokazu Matsuno, told a news conference.
No Japanese nationals were among the crew, he said.
A US military official said the seizure of the vessel "is a flagrant violation of international law.
We demand the immediate release of the ship and its crew.
We will consult with our allies and UN partners as to appropriate next steps," the official said.
The vessel, a car carrier, had been heading towards India from Europe with no cargo, a spokesperson said.
The Marine Traffic tracking site said the Galaxy Leader had "departed from Körfez, Turkey, and was on its way to Pipavav, India.
There were no Israelis aboard and Israel was not involved in its ownership or operation, his office said.
On 14 November, the Houthi rebel leader, Abdul Malik al-Houthi, said the group was on the lookout for Israeli vessels in the commercially vital waters of the Red Sea - even those that did not have Israeli flags.
