Part 1.
The boat is a bottom trawler.
It scoops up fish with a net that bounces across the seafloor at depths of more than 4,000 feet.
Along the murky seafloor, fish and rocks come in rounded shapes and soft colors, muted grays and greens.
It was September 2014, and Pennisi, who goes by Joe, was 50 years old, with four decades of fishing behind him.
He had sailed on commercial boats since he was 7; his father and grandfather had towed their nets in the same waters for more than a century.
Still, Joe sensed immediately what it might be.
For a few minutes, he stared at it while his wife, Grazia, slept beside him.
Then he started to scream.
Joe, Grazia and their six children shared a beige stucco house in Castroville, north of Monterey.
He liked living in Castroville because his backyard was spacious enough to accommodate old trawling gear and a rusty crane for construction projects.
But the house felt cramped, with only three bedrooms for eight people.
Grazia handled most of the kid duties because Joe spent so much time working, and unlike her husband, who had become semi-nocturnal after years of fishing through the night, she maintained a normal schedule.
âI gotta get the kids up for school,â Grazia said, stirring on her side of the bed.
She squinted at the yellow rectangular object.
âHow do you know what it is?â she asked, then rolled over.
âGo back to sleep.â Chapter 2.
How smooth?
In his bed in Castroville, he went back to the beginning of the video and looked for the flashes he had noticed earlier.
They were spread across a quarter mile within the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary.
A vast swath of federally protected water off the California coast, the sanctuary covers 6,094 square miles, stretching from Marin County south to San Luis Obispo County and extending 30 miles offshore, on average.
Buy a bigger house, obviously.
Retire in a few years instead of fishing until the day he died.
But in the weeks that followed, as he thought more about what heâd seen on the ocean floor, his excitement turned to anxiety, then dread.
Having done some diving in the course of his career, he knew that was well beyond the reach of typical diving gear.
But that wasnât the only problem.
Commercial fishermen like Joe must follow strict rules that dictate where theyâre allowed to fish and what theyâre allowed to catch.
âThere is an expression in treasure hunting: Treasure is trouble,â said John Chatterton, a renowned diver who has explored the wreck of the Titanic and co-discovered a lost German U-boat off the coast of New Jersey.
And it felt like destiny.
Heâd come to know it only because of the particular way he fished, the same way his father had, and his grandfather â trawling the ocean floor.
Chapter 3.
Draggers Joe is a large guy, 6 feet tall and paunchy, with a bushy black mustache and an upper body made stocky by a life spent handling huge bins of fish.
A ball cap hung low over his eyes.
In front of him, through the large wraparound windows of the wheelhouse, all he could see were tall blue waves and gulls and nothing else.
GIUSEPPE PENNISI NOVEMBER 10, 1938âDECEMBER 24, 2013 It was the first leg of a 48-hour fishing trip.
Depending on the weather and the seasons, Joe typically makes this journey every other week, spending several days preparing the boat, then sailing Thursday morning and returning to shore late Saturday, at which point he and his crew stay up all night unloading tens of thousands of pounds of fish.
Start to finish, the process takes 8Â1⁄2 days.
During that period, Joe runs on four hours of daily sleep.
Joe specializes in catching California groundfish, a class that includes about 90 deepwater varieties.
Once a mainstay on Bay Area menus, the population of many types of groundfish collapsed in the late 1990s and rebounded only recently, which is why you donât often see them at supermarket seafood counters: coral-pink bocaccio, a type of rockfish with a spiny top fin and brutish jaw; chilipepper, a smaller cousin with cartoon-like bulging eyes; tender petrale sole; sand dabs, which are like miniature flounder.
Though groundfish spend most of their time near the seafloor, some of the rockfish Joe targets drift up at night to sleep.
Then they slowly make their way back down, away from the creeping sunlight, in search of squid and anchovies to eat.
As the sun climbed that morning, solid bands of color started to form and twitch around on the screen, indicating that the fish had clustered near the ocean floor, like junior high kids finding their homeroom before the first bell.
Joleen was out on the deck.
Joleen is the Pioneerâs second-in-command, in charge of scheduling the boatâs voyages and keeping the crew in line.
It took 15 minutes to unfurl, pooling out behind the boat before finally sinking.
âLetâs go fishing!â Joleen yelled.
Joe sped up the boat, allowing the net to settle to the seafloor hundreds of feet below.
Seagulls began assembling in the wake, and an albatross flew by, its wide wingspan and dark feathers distinguishing it from the gulls.
