In one post-op scene, a father sees his son's face clearly for the first time until, ironically, his own tears blur his vision.
It's all masterfully structured, designed to stir your emotions and retain your attention until the very end of the video.
But that's precisely what rang alarm bells for many viewers, whose dread and apprehension lay in witnessing how something so ostensibly heart-warming actually felt grimly dystopian.
In well-functioning societies and with meaningful global solidarity, this would be an utterly mundane practice, easily accessible for all.
While Donaldson appears to be a decent person, acting honestly and in good faith, the joke contains a grain of truth.
The resulting core dilemma, in its simplest form, is whether MrBeast is parasitically feeding off entrenched inequalities to build his brand, "exploiting disabled folks for clout and, ultimately, revenue".
Alternatively, is Donaldson generously using his wealth and influence to promote valuable causes that could benefit millions, undertaking acts far more admirable than his contemporaries with similar influence and reach?
Still, there's no denying that the video falls squarely into the problematic territory of "inspiration porn".
Coined by the late Stella Young, the term refers to instances where persons with disabilities are reduced to caricatures, paraded either for their resilience in "overcoming" their differences or as passive subjects waiting for cashed-up abled folk to "cure" them and save the day.
By unabashedly embracing this genre, Donaldson's video proved both surgically precise in knowing what will capture an audience and yet crudely naïve in not anticipating a backlash.
The child does not appear in the video.
You may not know who he is, but if you have kids or grandkids aged between 6 and 16, they know him and likely love him.
It is hard to overstate how much influence this 24-year-old from North Carolina possesses and the intensity of affection among his many millions of fans.
Arguably, no one understands YouTube better than Donaldson, who regularly confesses that his life has been a singular obsession with the platform after he first began posting videos in 2012.
In 2016, Donaldson dropped out of university after only two weeks, reportedly telling his mother that he'd "rather be poor than do anything besides YouTube".
As he gained followers and revenue the same basic formula remained, only drastically scaled up with ever more ambitious and outlandish spectacles.
Today, one way to describe a typical MrBeast video would be "childhood hypotheticals made reality".
That is, Donaldson takes the mind-wandering fantasies of our youth ("Wouldn't it be fun to play hide-and-seek in a shopping mall with 100 people?") and makes it happen.
But like it or not, this manic style has proven incredibly effective, and they have it down to a fine art.
Videos are tightly structured, edited at a frantic pace, smoothly incorporate sponsorships deals, and are stuffed with cross-promotion of the "MrBeast Burger" chain and "Feastables" snack range.
For the uninitiated it can seem like bewildering nonsense, but it's all precisely engineered to maximise engagement.
In interviews he has confessed that "building this business is like cocaine to me.
I just don't know how to stop ...
But, sometimes we gotta splice stuff like this in.
Suffice to say, this is a fine line to walk.
Donaldson is undoubtedly brilliant, and in a world where influencers like Andrew Tate are corrupting young minds in extraordinarily harmful ways, there are far worse people who could hold the mantle of most popular YouTuber.
Though Donaldson is oddly one-dimensional, with a mask that never drops, his demeanour is always affable and his content is family friendly.
Still, his seeming obsession with growth and reach can manifest in a curious lack of reflection.
Of course, unlike the series, the elimination of contestants did not end with their gruesome deaths.
However, also absent was any recognition of the irony of it all, given Squid Game's blunt commentary on how class disparity enables economically precarious persons to be exploited for the entertainment of the wealthy.
While this depthless quality is mostly harmless
