On Sunday, Aug.
Since its 2020 debut, the fast food service has operated solely out of ghost kitchens across the country.
But the Burgers aren't the draw; MrBeast is.
I hoped we would get to meet him and then we'd get a burger.
We arrived at 7:30 p.m.
and we'd go home and come back in morning around 10 a.m.
opening.
We realized by about 8:30 p.m.
we'd probably be staying overnight.
So we did and wound up getting our burgers by about 12:30 p.m.
on Sunday.
We were #435-437 in line.
We used our backpacks for pillows (not comfortable) and went to the Walgreens in the mall and bought some beach towels for a blanket and some melatonin.
But it was very hard to sleep - it was loud, and there was lots of light.
We probably only got two hours, tops.
I also tried to use my mom as a pillow.
Maybe.
It wasn't that comfortable and waiting in line forever wasn't fun.
I wish there was more stuff for us to do while we waited in line.
I thought, I have Labor Day off from classes, I have my own car, and it's less than an hour away.
I arrived at around 7:30 p.m., stayed overnight, and got into the actual restaurant at around 12:30 p.m.
on Sunday.
I was 438th in line.
on Sunday.
I honestly didn't expect too much.
But my expectations were blown.
Security handled us well, and I got to meet those who keep me going!
Small Noot, 18 On Saturday, I left my house at 8:00 a.m.
and got there at 9:30 a.m.
Punz was outside the restaurant on the third floor for the majority of that time, and there were other creators like Astelic, Quig, and Sylvee there, but I wasn't able to see them.
I went to go check out the mall and a lot of people had the same idea I guess because they were all lined up at other food restaurants and these lines were so long they were going outside the food court.
That was the case for all the food places.
I wanted one last look of the restaurant and the area had died down a bit, but there were police officers blocking the escalators.
The atmosphere of the mall was overwhelming but a positive feeling.
Half the stores were closed the whole day and there didn't seem to be anyone shopping who wasn't there for MrBeast.
My boyfriend and I ended up getting there around 9:30 a.m., and the place was absolutely packed with lines of people.
It might be loading or has been removed.
It might be loading or has been removed.
The burger would have been a plus, but there's a ghost kitchen near my house so I've at least gotten to try it before.
Sharon, 42 My 14 year old son asked to go.
I tried to explain the scope of what was going to happen and manage their expectations.
We [me, my 14-year-old and my 10-year-old daughter] actually arrived at the mall on Saturday night.
We went to have dinner and check out the mall so I would know where to park and come in the next morning.
When we got there, we saw that they were already over 100 people in line.
I told my kids, I'd rather sleep in my own bed, but if this is important to you, I'm in.
They both immediately said that they understood and wanted to stay.
We were number 127 on the list.
It might be loading or has been removed.
I was definitely not prepared.
The kids slept on [mall] couches, and I stayed up all night in line.
They were really troopers.
No complaining.
Around 6 a.m.
they told us to be ready to move our lines.
By 9 a.m.
we were upstairs in another line waiting for the restaurant to open.
We entered at 11:45 a.m, ordered, and got our food by 12:05 a.m.
The whole thing was very organized overnight, but it was a mad house by the time we were leaving.
It took us over 25 minutes just to exit the mall.
I don't know his name.
But the look on my son's face was everything.
Literal joy.
My son said it was the best day of his life.
We spent three weeks in Europe, took two cruises, and ended the summer with a week in Disney World.
But this was the best day of his life.
These interviews have been edited for length and clarity.
Elizabeth is a digital culture reporter covering the internet's influence on self-expression, fashion, and fandom.
Her work explore
