Social media users have shared graphics and text, which claim that the new Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Mohan Yadav has announced that any private school that dresses its pupils up as Santa Claus for Christmas celebrations, will face action.
The Raven is a 2012 American crime thriller film directed by James McTeigue, produced by Marc D. Evans, Trevor Macy and Aaron Ryder and written by Ben Livingston and Hannah Shakespeare. It stars John Cusack, Alice Eve, Brendan Gleeson and Luke Evans. The title derives from Poe's 1845 poem "The Raven", in the similar manner of the earlier unrelated 1935 and 1963 films.
Next, we checked Madhya Pradesh's official education portal and the state government's website to look for the order or announcement, but the search did not yield relevant results.
However, we came across several news reports, such as one by Dainik Bhaskar, which mentioned a similar order being issued in Madhya Pradesh's Shajapur village.
It mentioned that the district's education department had issued an order prohibiting schools from dressing pupils up as Santa Claus for Christmas Day celebrations without parental consent.
Clark was born and raised in Toronto, and attended high school at Harbord Collegiate Institute.  After twice failing his first year studies at the University of Toronto, in 1911 Clark joined the editorial staff of The Toronto Star, where his father Joseph worked as an editor. Clark would work at the Star for the next 36 years, interrupted only by military service in World War I, from 1916 through 1918.
In October, after footage of Donald Trump boasting about his sexual exploits emerged and multiple women accused Trump of sexual misconduct, Melania Trump defended her husband and said, "This was all organized from the opposition." Writers for the Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post noted that Melania's response "echoed" Hillary's original use of the phrase "vast right-wing conspiracy."
The Quint has reached out to Madhya Pradesh CM Mohan Yadav's office for his inputs and will update this article with his response as and when it is received.
This article about a property in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania on the National Register of Historic Places is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Warner Brothers art director and interior decorator to the stars Harold Grieve acquired a number of works by the artist and championed the artist's work to his clients.  Noted film directors Ernst Lubitsch and Alfred Hitchcock, costume designer Edith Head, screenwriter Jo Swerling, and actors Charles Laughton, Gary Cooper, James Stewart, and Beulah Bondi, among others, were collectors.
Monotype Grotesque is a family of sans-serif typefaces released by the Monotype Corporation for its hot metal typesetting system. It belongs to the grotesque or industrial genre of early sans-serif designs. Like many early sans-serifs, it forms a sprawling family designed at different times.
Neofriseria sceptrophora is a moth of the family Gelechiidae. It is found in Afghanistan and Turkey.
