Firstly, it is the home state of BJP National President JP Nadda.
That is why during the election campaign, he kept saying that âHimachal is my second homeâ.
Thirdly, Himachal has the largest population of followers of Hinduism in the country.
Himachalâs election results have proved many things altogether.
Firstly, if the citizens are educated and aware, they cannot be misled or tricked in any way.
Himachal is also the state that sends the maximum number of soldiers to the army.
This was also one of the reasons why the youth preparing to join the army voted against the BJP and in favour of the Congress.
Thirdly, it has been proved that even though BJP calls itself the advocate of Hindus by raising the slogan of âHindutvaâ, but in reality, the followers of Hinduism do not the like the Party.
Congress fought a strong battle at every front.
BJP tried a lot but Congress kept the election focussed on peopleâs issues and its united collective leadership foiled every propaganda of BJP.
On one hand was going on the âBharat Jodo Yatraâ in the country under the leadership of Shri Rahul Gandhi and on the other hand elections in Himachal - the issues of both were same - rising inflation, rising unemployment, anarchy and fear.
These issues were strengthened by âBharat Jodo Yatraâ in the elections and Himachal people/voters started making up their mind for change.
Congress contested Himachal elections with 10 guarantees, which included issues like restoration of old pension scheme, five lakh jobs with one lakh government jobs, Rs.
1500 per month to women, 300 units of free electricity, fair price to apple growers.
With the help of central and local leaders and advance organizations in every Legislative Assembly of Himachal Pradesh, through about 160 press talks, the guarantee was taken to the public with answers to every question, which instilled confidence in the public and the public supported the Congress.
Smt.
Priyanka Gandhiji played an important role in the Himachal elections.
Smt.
Priyanka Gandhi contested for the first time in Himachal elections and got endeared to its people.
In all these meetings, senior observer appointed by AICC in Himachal Pradesh and Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Bhupesh Baghel accompanied her.
Although, Bhupesh Baghel ji addressed some rallies by himself.
Apart from this, his role behind the scenes in the elections was remarkable too.
The way his Chhattisgarh team handled the elections proved that winning equations can be made with the right strategy.
Today, there is a Congress government in Himachal Pradesh.
May both live up to the expectations of the people of Himachal Pradesh.
The author is an Ex.
MLA & AICC Delegate
