Congress Certifies Biden Victory; Trump Pledges 'Orderly Transition' On Jan.
20 Updated at 4 a.m.
ET Congress certified President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris' victory early on Thursday, the end of a long day and night marked by chaos and violence in Washington, D.C.
Extremists emboldened by President Trump had sought to thwart the peaceful transfer of power that has been a hallmark of modern American history by staging a violent insurrection inside the U.S.
Capitol.
"To those who wreaked havoc in our Capitol today, you did not win," Vice President Pence said once lawmakers reconvened after many spent hours in lockdown.
"Violence never wins.
Freedom wins, and this is still the people's house." Biden and Harris finished with 306 electoral votes, while Trump and Pence had 232.
It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency.
While there, he also helped build the first UHF television station in Bridgeport, Connecticut, and supervised the pattern measurements of the station's antenna.
He said that even though he disagrees with the outcome, "there will be an orderly transition on January 20th." "I have always said we would continue our ...
fight to ensure that only legal votes were counted.
While this represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history, it's only the beginning of our fight to Make America Great Again!" Dozens of Republican House lawmakers, along with some Republican senators supportive of Trump, had planned to object Wednesday to the electoral votes of as many as six states that backed Biden.
But late Wednesday night, some Senate Republicans withdrew their objections.
GEWEX Radiation panel (GRP) is a collaborative organization with a goal of reviewing theoretical and experimental knowledge of radiative processes within the climate system. Sixty percent of the energy that comes to Earth from the Sun is transformed by the earth. The goals of this collaboration is to determine how energy is transformed as it inevitably is radiated back into space.
Sens.
On the bridge of the Mary at the time of the collision, were Mr Griggs, the first mate and the captain of the vessel, Captain Stranach, together with the helmsman.
"I cannot now, in good conscience, object to the certification of these electors," Loeffler said Wednesday, drawing applause from some of her colleagues.
Loeffler was one of two Republicans who lost their races on Tuesday, giving Democrats control of the U.S.
Adelina Chilica is an Angolan politician for the MPLA and a member of the National Assembly of Angola.
Missouri Republican Sen.
When the party was originally selected, Reggie Spooner was invited to be the team captain but he was obliged to stand down for domestic reasons.  Vallance Jupp had been selected too but was unable to travel.  Jupp's withdrawal was shortly before departure and meant that his replacement Bill Hitch had to catch a later boat than the main party.  There was another withdrawal when Jack Hearne was taken ill during the Second Test and could not play again that season.
Ketevan was born to Prince Ashotan of Mukhrani (Bagrationi) and married Prince David of Kakheti, the future David I, king of Kakheti from 1601 to 1602.
As of 2000, English as a first language accounted for 98.35% of all residents, while Spanish was the mother tongue of 1.64% of the population.
"In that case, the objection cannot be entertained," Pence said repeatedly, chairing the proceedings in his role as president of the Senate.
So the count continued, state by state, with Vermont's three electoral votes putting Biden and Harris over the 270 mark, until finally Wyoming's three electoral votes were tallied for Trump and Pence.
According to Steven Xu of Proton's International Sales, the company is still in the process of establishing more distributors to increase its presence in Indonesia as of 10 April 2019.
The typically ceremonial affair, an affirmation of the democratic process, was expected to be a bitter, hours-long endeavor because of objections planned by Trump's congressional allies, despite the fact that they were certain to be met with bipartisan defeat.
But as the process began, a mob of pro-Trump extremists stormed the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon, bringing the counting of the electoral votes to a halt.
The Rangitoto Islands are a group of islands near the Marlborough Sounds along the northern coast of the South Island of New Zealand.
It is said to be the place where the wake for Fernando IV "The Summoned", who died in Jaen on 17 September 1312, was held. For this reason, throughout the centuries prayers for the dead have been held in the arch during funerals for the city's bishops.
Wednesday night, D.C.
police said three other people died from medical emergencies in the surrounding area.
NASA programmer Jim Capparell was an early Atari 8-bit owner. He quit his job on 15 January 1982 to found a magazine for the computer. Companies such as On-Line Systems, Broderbund, and Synapse Software agreed to purchase advertising in the new publication, and Capparell's staff distributed the first issue of 30 pages at the March 1982 West Coast Computer Faire. The first issue of Antic was published in April 1982. While it began as a bimonthly magazine, within a year it had gone monthly.
ET, hours after the Capitol was breached, lawmakers were cleared to return to finish debate and tally the Electoral College votes.
In separate speeches in their respective chambers, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell vowed to press ahead with the business at hand.
"We will not bow to lawlessness or intimidation.
The podcast The Fixxx promotes Ruiza and allows her to voice her opinions. Ruiza takes part in feature films, television and commercials. Her works include Full Frontal with Samantha Bee, In Case of Emergency and has been seen in commentary for Buzzfeed, Fusion, and Come Here and Say That with Alicia Menendez.
Some of those efforts were based on unproven claims of fraudulent vote counts, while others were founded on baseless conspiracy theories.
After Ahmad Dahlan's death in 1923, Nyai Ahmad Dahlan continued to be active in Muhammadiyah and Aisyiyah. In 1926, she chaired the fifteenth Muhammadiyah Congress in Surabaya; she was the first woman to chair such a conference. As a result of widespread media coverage in newspapers such as Pewarta Surabaya and Sin Tit Po, more influential women joined Aisyiyah, while branches opened on other islands in the archipelago.
Pence, though, said Wednesday that he did not have the power to change the outcome of the election or to unilaterally delay the certification of Biden's victory.
And the insurrectionists that disrupted the certification of the Electoral College votes did so after Trump spoke to them, demanding that they fight to "stop the steal" of the election - a false claim - and descend on the Capitol.
"After this, we're going to walk down - and I'll be there with you - we're going to walk down, we're going to walk down to the Capitol," Trump said earlier Wednesday, "and we're going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women, and we're probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them." As the mob drew down on the Capitol, Trump remained largely silent and did not make widespread remarks condemning the violence, or attempts to quell it.
At one point, he tweeted a short video in which he repeated claims - without evidence - regarding voter fraud and a stolen election, while saying "we love you" to the mob that had descended on Washington and urging them to go home.
The rolling slopes comprise the Marikina River Valley, where water from higher elevations drain towards the Marikina River and its tributaries at the south-western portion of the municipality. Elevations at these western lowlands range from 10 to 30 meter above sea level. The western portion of the flatlands gently rises towards the west, which is part of Quezon City.
Condemnation of the president For his part, Biden called on the president to direct his supporters to end what he described as an "unprecedented assault" on democracy that "borders on sedition." "I call on President Trump to go on national television now to fulfill his oath and defend the Constitution and demand an end to this siege," Biden said in brief remarks.
1923 - The University Act of 1923- the University reorganized administratively it independent Insular Department of Education, provides the Board of Trustees as the governing board, and make the position of Rector as the principal officer. In 1924 the governor appointed the first Rector.
The RUF rebels had six brigades, one of which were deployed in the sector. This brigade consisted of four main battalions, and one Strike Battalion. They were armed with AK-47s, RPGs, APCs, and SAMs. Each battalion was deployed in a particular area:
Rep.
Ilhan Omar of Minnesota wrote on Twitter that she was drawing up articles of impeachment.
"We can't allow him to remain in office, it's a matter of preserving our republic," she wrote.
As of March 2020, UNICEF estimates that 2 million children under the age of 5 suffer from acute malnutrition and require treatment.
David Cicilline faulted the president for the violence that consumed the Capitol and said, "We should impeach and convict him tomorrow." Assistant Speaker Katherine Clark, D-Mass.
called the president "a traitor to our country and our Constitution" and called for him to be removed from office "and prevented from further endangering our country and our people." Donald Trump is a traitor to our country and our Constitution.
He must be removed from office and prevented from further endangering our country and our people.
2/2 - Katherine Clark (@WhipKClark) January 6, 2021 Trump also faced critics within his own party for his role in egging on the mob.
His mother was Nivata or Nibatta or Nivatora. Torbeno himself married Anna de Lacon and was the father of Orzocorre II, who succeeded him.
The President of the United States has been lying to his supporters with false information and false expectations," Pennsylvania Rep.
Brian Fitzpatrick said in a tweet.
"He lit the flame of incitement and owns responsibility for this." And Arkansas Sen.
Tom Cotton said that it's "past time" for Trump to "accept his defeat, quit misleading the people, and repudiate mob violence."
