But given the turbulent state of politics, there is little reason to be sanguine about the country's political and economic future.
It also resulted in a largely buoyant week at the stock market.
Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif has, in an essay written for The Economist, called the IMF programme the "path to safety".
But political turmoil continues to cast a shadow over the economy.
Under attack by both his own party and his government's principal coalition partner, Finance Minister Miftah Ismail has stood his ground by taking painful but necessary decisions to close the deal with the IMF and thus avert the possibility of default by the country.
The acting governor of the State Bank, Murtaza Syed, also played a key role by skillfully managing a difficult situation.
The finance minister continues to face criticism from his party colleagues.
The tussle between the two over the custody of Shahbaz Gill is a case in point.
As are the arrest orders issued by the Punjab government and police raids on the homes of PML-N leaders, who then fled the province.
The centre-province wrangle and the politics of settling scores has plunged the country into a vortex of turmoil and uncertainty.
More seems to be in the offing.
Encouraged by the large crowds he has drawn, and his support base remaining unaffected by allegations of malfeasance by his opponents, Khan is in no mood to dial down political tensions.
There is a close nexus between economic recovery and political certainty.
This means tempestuous politics will continue to heighten economic risk, keep markets edgy and investors in a hesitant state.
Moreover, rifts within the PML-N and divisions on economic policy among coalition partners have raised doubts about whether the government will stay the policy course agreed with the IMF.
Therefore, questions continue to be raised about the longevity of the IMF programme.
The programme itself is not just about fulfilling prior actions but staying on track, implementing measures over time and rebuilding trust with international financial institutions.
The Fund has already cautioned the government it might have to take additional measures "given the elevated uncertainty in the global economy and financial markets".
Energy and food prices have soared and fuelled worldwide inflation, exacerbating Pakistan's economic difficulties.
Political uncertainty has many damaging effects on a struggling economy.
Depreciation of the rupee in turn fuels higher debt-financing costs and inflation.
Political polarisation has another deleterious economic impact in Pakistan's federal system.
This diminishes chances of a sustainable economic rebound that clearly depends on new investment.
The irony is that all major political parties actually agree on the fundamental elements of economic policy - export-driven growth, curbing the fiscal deficit, instituting an equitable and simplified tax system, ensuring tax compliance, creating a business-friendly environment, adhering to a market-determined exchange rate, privatising bankrupt state-owned enterprises, bringing down inflation, reducing the debt level and restraining government expenditure.
Despite this convergence, their efforts to seek political mileage drives them in the opposite direction, which puts the accent on their divergences at the cost of the country's economic stability.
The writer is a former ambassador to the US, UK & UN.
