10.) 'They Lost The Plane' Not being able to find your car in a parking lot is one thing, a plane though?
We're late, and I have less than 5 minutes to make the connection (connecting flight is listed as on-time, but still boarding) Crew on the flight from BWI is great and makes the point to insure that those of us with these tight connections are let off first.
I haul my ass through that crowded terminal.
This was back when I was in shape and could cover a mile in about 5 minutes flat.
I get to the gate I'm supposed to be leaving from, and the door's closed.
Shit....
sign now says "delayed".
no one has even come to man the gate yet.
Turns out our plane isn't here yet.
Half an hour later, they tell us they're not sure where the plane is, but it will be here soon.
Still another half hour later, and here comes a plane arriving from CMI.
But wait - that's now for the later departure to CMI, that one isn't our plane.
Lost as in crashed?
No.
THEY LOST A FRIGGIN AIRPLANE!
Ok, granted, it was "only" an ATR-72 at ORD, but it was supposed to be coming out of maintenance and somehow they LOST THE FREAKING AIRPLANE!
Thankfully about 15 minutes after that, they finally announce that after searching the airport for a few hours, they found the plane and it is being towed to our gate.
But I've never forgotten where I parked a 90 foot long, $25 million 74 passenger aircraft with a 90 foot wingspan." Suggested By: shortyoh 9.) 29 Hour Delay Yes you read that right.
Reader Diesel got delayed for 29 hours.
I showed up to the airport at Noon, dropped off my rental car and breezed through security.
The flight was going along smoothly until we hit the thunderstorm that had been at Dallas delaying our flight.
We finally leveled out but it was like being inside a bucking horse for the next half an hour.
Finally, it smoothed out the flight continued and we landed.
One call to customer service later and I was in a hotel for the night.
Not a decent hotel, a crappy hotel by the airport strip club kind of hotel(if you travel a lot, you know what I mean) in a room that reeked of smoke and I highly doubt had clean sheets or bedding.
I drowned my sorrows in the crappy hotel bar for all of 30 minutes, since that was all the time I had and went to bed.
Next day, went to the airport, breezed through security again and yay more delays.
So, my travel time ended up being 29 hours to get from Little Rock to New Orleans.
How nice!
"Setting -> 7am - Former East Berlin, June 20, 2004.
But when I go to check out everything goes wrong.
The card is at the limit, so the 80Euro bill is not getting paid this morning.
8:45am 6/20/2004 - Arrive at Tegel Intl.
Fuck, Fuck, Fuck, Fuck...
flight in delayed.
Woot, and we are taxing by 11am, only 1hr and 45 mins late.
No explanation given.
Good pilot.
Still might make connector to Memphis after a month in Poland.
When in grad school always do as your advisor says - he is more of a mentor than a talking head.
He will then check his clipboard and then look at you...
then flip through his clipboard...
and LOOK AT YOU!
Before the nice Dutch man comes back to his counter and asks what you were doing in Germany.
The lady in a full burka and three kids made it thru in a 1/5th of the time, I swear.
Lesson - Listen to you adviser & lie to airport security.
10 mins.....
20 mins...
I can see the wing and the engines of the DC-10...
- "Everyone, we are having some problems..." fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck.
But mind you this flight is full.
That means there is a lady in her 60s sitting beside you.
She love to talk.
She loves to tell you the things she knows that the general population is not aware of.
In fact..
and this is a direct quote...
"You know who invented Saccharine don't you?
Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck.
6-21-04 -> My 23rd Birthday!!!
As I am waking up in a rather nice hotel on the outskirts of Schriphol I realize all my friends are at my birthday/welcome home party at the Olde Bar in Raleigh.
Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck.
Everyone is up by 5/6am and back at the terminal.
We have been told they have fixed the plane and that we are the schedule departure of the day.
I am in the same designated seat, beside the same basket case lady, but this is not the same chair.
And believe me I was using them to drown out Saccharine/Mormon lady.
This isn't the same plane!
Oh you cheeky dutch KLM fuckers.
However, TSA regulations still state the luggage already on the other plane but be unloaded, scanned through security, and then RE-SCANNED through security again before being able to be loaded onto the new plane, which they still insist is the same plane.
Which everyone can see being done.
We land in Memphis...
Airport.....(ever been there?
