In New York, the $19 billion redevelopment of John F.
"The impact of climate change has humbled us all," said Rick Cotton, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns JFK along with the smaller LaGuardia and Newark airports.
While the aviation industry has promised to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2050, harsher weather conditions are already forcing a rethink of critical infrastructure in airports and airfields across the world.
Heat waves this summer across the U.S., Europe and Asia put pressure on cooling systems at airports - which are crucial not just for keeping passengers comfortable but also ensuring critical electronic systems don't overheat.
Runways contain different mixtures of asphalt depending on a region's climate.
A surface in Dubai, for example, is made up of a different composition to withstand higher temperatures than one in the U.K., which is now sweating under the heat for longer periods.
To protect the JFK hub, the authority also plans to elevate or relocate buildings to less flood-prone areas of the hubs and install flood-control devices.
"We've designed the terminal so that critical infrastructure would be protected in the event of flooding due to rising sea levels or storms, and we added deployable flood barriers as an additional precaution," said Helena Williams, CEO of JFK Millennium Partners, which is leading a $4.9 billion redevelopment of Terminal 6 at the airport.
In the icy climates of Alaska, airports and other vital infrastructure are built on permafrost, a constantly frozen layer on or under the Earth's surface.
Over in Europe, Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport has already elevated its runways in the center and sloped them down towards the edges to make sure water drains properly as rainfall intensifies.
The airport is creating shadowed areas along walking and cycling routes, improving ventilation, planting trees and designing heat-resistant surfaces so that buildings and the surrounding urban area don't overheat.
Nice Airport in the south of France has over the past year cut back on the amount of industrial water it uses for cleaning, said Isabelle Vandroit, the head of sustainable development and environment at L'Aéroports de la Côte d'Azur.
Higher temperatures even affect the laws of physics underpinning flying itself.
Urgency is building in the aviation industry to adjust to climate change, against the backdrop of rebounding post-pandemic travel and worsening weather conditions, according to a Eurocontrol report in March.
As extreme weather events become more frequent, more airports are likely to choose material mixes that can sustain both hot and freezing conditions which are more costly, according to Alex Walton, a senior civil engineer at construction giant Arup Group Ltd.
Some of the hundreds of airports that Arup works with have plans to redevelop their airfield system or choose new materials for cooling and ventilation systems in terminals.
After a slowdown during the pandemic, more airports are now prioritizing a redesign, said Walton.
Costs of climate-related upgrades depend on the location and issues associated with each airport.
Daily inspections and maintenance on runways amount to at least tens of thousands of dollars per year and could increase with climate change, said Thomas Budd, a senior lecturer at Cranfield University in England.
The majority of airports in the world weren't designed to handle temperatures over 50 degrees Celsius, Budd said.
More airports could potentially suffer from pavement defects and other infrastructure issues if climate change continues on its current trajectory, potentially causing significant disruption for global air travel.
