PM Modi is popular but did not keep his promises, says Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah The people of Karnataka are happy with us, there is absolutely no anti-incumbency, the chief minister says.
For a change, the party is optimistic about Karnataka.
Why is that?
They know what decisions to take.
The people of Karnataka are happy with us.
Are you under pressure because your party is looking up to you to give it momentum ahead of the assembly elections in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh and the general elections next year?
Naturally, the Congress party is expecting us to win because after one year we will face parliamentary elections.
As far as FDI and other investments are concerned, Karnataka was at the 11th place in 2013-14.
How could it be if the law and order situation in the state was not good?
As far as corruption is concerned, they have not been able to come up with any documents to prove their charges against the government.
They are making wild allegations.
How will you counter him?
Whatever promises Modiji made, before and after the parliamentary elections, have not been fulfilled.
Demonetisation and the new tax regime (goods and services tax) have totally failed.
Is this election going to be a battle between you and Yeddyurappa, you and Modi, or between Rahul Gandhi and Narendra Modi?
It's going to be between the ideologies of the parties, the programmes and schemes that I have brought, not between individuals.
In the recent Gujarat elections, I don't think Modiji had a big upper-hand over Rahulji.
The BJP has announced that it will not have any pre-poll alliance with the Janata Dal (Secular).
How does this affect the Congress game plan?
In some districts, such as Mysore, Mandya, Hassan, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara and Chikballapur, they don't have a strong base.
Which party do you consider your main rival - the BJP or the JD(S)?
Of course the BJP, and the JD(S) in six-seven districts.
In old Mysore, we are fighting with the JD(S).
A controversy has erupted over your government's decision to withdraw cases against minorities, which you subsequently revised.
The issue is the Sachar Committee report.
As per its recommendations, all states have to take some action.
On the basis of that report, the home department called for some details.
We have withdrawn cases against farmers, minorities and against Kannada associations.
It's not that we are withdrawing cases only against minorities.
It's totally incorrect.
After the Lok Sabha elections, your Central leadership concluded that the image of being a party that appeased the minorities worked against it...
We don't appease any community, class or religion.
But what about all those visits by Rahul Gandhi to temples?
Let him visit.
Is he not a Hindu?
Political observers feel you are playing the BJP card against the BJP.
There is no provision in the Constitution prohibiting the state from having a separate flag.
In America, each state has its own flag though it is a union of States.
It's not the intention of the state government, it's the association Veershaiva Mahasabha.
Mr Shivashankarappa (the Mahasabha president), who is a former minister and senior leader of our party, made a demand at a function that they wanted a separate religion for Veershaiva Lingayats.
There are other groups among Lingayats...
Mathe Mahadevi has been fighting for a separate religion, she also wrote a letter to me.
Afterwards, this issue was taken up by different factions of the Lingayat community.
I got five petitions from them.
I referred these petitions to the state minority commission, which set up an expert committee headed by a retired high court judge.
Several states are experiencing an agrarian crisis and it's no different in Karnataka.
Your adversaries say you had taken a vow at the Krishna river in 2013 that if you came to power, you would spend ₹10,000 crore every year on irrigation projects.
They say you haven't fulfilled your promise.
After I came to power, I allocated ₹10,000 crore for irrigation every year.
I didn't make a statement that it was only for upper Krishna project - it was for all pending irrigation projects.
I will give facts, figures and documents.
To whom did he write the letter?
Mr Yeddyurappa wrote him a letter, to which he replied.
The inter-state water dispute is between states, not between Yeddyurappa and (Goa CM Manohar) Parrikar.
On that basis, I wrote a letter to the previous chief minister (Parrikar's predecessor Laxmikant Parsekar) and to Mr Parrikar after the elections.
They did not reply to my letters.
Let them take all chairpersons into confidence.
They have to get all facts and figures from the states.
DK Singh was part of Hindustan Times' nationwide network of correspondents that brings news, analysis and information to its readers.
