Part 1. A Flash of Gold Chapter 1. The Ingot One late night five years ago, fisherman Giuseppe Pennisi was lying in bed with his laptop propped up on his barrel chest, reviewing video footage captured from his 76-foot boat, the Pioneer. The boat is a bottom trawler. It scoops up fish with a net that bounces across the seafloor at depths of more than 4,000 feet. A tinkerer, Pennisi likes to keep GoPro cameras attached to the net, allowing him to study the footage and improve his technique. That night, around 2 a.m., he noticed his camera slide past something unusual. Along the murky seafloor, fish and rocks come in rounded shapes and soft colors, muted grays and greens. His eyes were attuned to this drab underwater landscape, which is why he had been puzzled by brief flashes of light on the video screen, shiny surfaces glimmering by. Then he saw it: a rectangular object, sharp-edged and pale, almost white, with a tinge of yellow. It was September 2014, and Pennisi, who goes by Joe, was 50 years old, with four decades of fishing behind him. He had sailed on commercial boats since he was 7; his father and grandfather had towed their nets in the same waters for more than a century. He had never seen anything like the object in the video. Still, Joe sensed immediately what it might be. His net often got caught on the rotting underwater husks of old ships wrecked just beyond the Golden Gate, and he knew that some of those ships â Spanish galleons, Gold Rush-era steamers â had carried treasure. He rewound the video, peered forward and froze the frame with the yellow rectangular object. It looked for all the world like a gold bar, an ingot. For a few minutes, he stared at it while his wife, Grazia, slept beside him. Then he started to scream. Joe, Grazia and their six children shared a beige stucco house in Castroville, north of Monterey. At the time, he kept his boat at the Moss Landing harbor 10 minutes away; later he would shift the boat to Fishermanâs Wharf in San Francisco. He liked living in Castroville because his backyard was spacious enough to accommodate old trawling gear and a rusty crane for construction projects. But the house felt cramped, with only three bedrooms for eight people. Grazia handled most of the kid duties because Joe spent so much time working, and unlike her husband, who had become semi-nocturnal after years of fishing through the night, she maintained a normal schedule. âI gotta get the kids up for school,â Grazia said, stirring on her side of the bed. âWhat is it?â He played the video for her. âI think itâs gold,â he said. She squinted at the yellow rectangular object. âHow do you know what it is?â she asked, then rolled over. âGo back to sleep.â Chapter 2. A Really Big Secret Joe tried to imagine what it would feel like to hold a gold bar. How heavy would it be? How smooth? In his bed in Castroville, he went back to the beginning of the video and looked for the flashes he had noticed earlier. Thatâs when he really started to freak out, because the rectangular object â whatever it might be â wasnât the only one. The GoPro had captured hours of video on its memory card, in 12 clips lasting 18 minutes each. Over the next few days, Joe watched the video over and over, first on his laptop and then on a large television screen. All in all, he ended up counting more than 50 glints of yellow, and of those, about 30 seemed to have rectangular shapes and straight edges consistent with the contours of gold ingots. They were spread across a quarter mile within the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary. A vast swath of federally protected water off the California coast, the sanctuary covers 6,094 square miles, stretching from Marin County south to San Luis Obispo County and extending 30 miles offshore, on average. Joe plies his trade there along with thousands of amateur and professional fishers, pulling his net back and forth across the bottom of the Pacific. He had no idea how much one bar of gold might be worth. Half a million dollars per bar? A million? How much for 30 of them? He began thinking: What would he do with that kind of money? Buy a bigger house, obviously. Retire in a few years instead of fishing until the day he died. But in the weeks that followed, as he thought more about what heâd seen on the ocean floor, his excitement turned to anxiety, then dread. The shiny objects were in very deep water, more than 1,000 feet down. Having done some diving in the course of his career, he knew that was well beyond the reach of typical diving gear. Probably only professional divers with special equipment or robotic vehicles could access that depth. But that wasnât the only problem. Because the objects lay within the Monterey Bay sanctuary, the federal government would probably be a hurdle. Commercial fishermen like Joe must follow strict rules that dictate where theyâre allowed to fish and what theyâre allowed to catch. Government officials track their boats with transponder signals and onboard observers. A question began to eat at Joe: What if he couldnât actually lay his hands on whatever was down there? What if he had made the discovery of a lifetime but could never bring it to the surface? âThere is an expression in treasure hunting: Treasure is trouble,â said John Chatterton, a renowned diver who has explored the wreck of the Titanic and co-discovered a lost German U-boat off the coast of New Jersey. âThe more treasure, the more trouble.â Joe was about to learn this for himself. It was the biggest secret he had ever needed to keep. So big that he was compelled to just blurt it out. So big it could put his family in danger. And it felt like destiny. Heâd come to know it only because of the particular way he fished, the same way his father had, and his grandfather â trawling the ocean floor. He had spent his life on the water, yet when it came to treasure, he was a rank amateur. But he knew something the experts didnât. Joe knew, within a tiny circle of the Pacific, where a treasure might be. Chapter 3. Draggers Joe is a large guy, 6 feet tall and paunchy, with a bushy black mustache and an upper body made stocky by a life spent handling huge bins of fish. On a recent morning, he sat in the captainâs chair of the Pioneer, a padded blue seat salvaged from an old van. A ball cap hung low over his eyes. He sipped a mug of thick coffee brewed by his deck boss, Joleen Lambert Skinner, his most trusted colleague and friend. The boat that day was about 24 miles west of Half Moon Bay, in the open Pacific. In front of him, through the large wraparound windows of the wheelhouse, all he could see were tall blue waves and gulls and nothing else. Taped to one of the windows was a small photo of his late father, beneath a printed verse from Corinthians: That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. GIUSEPPE PENNISI NOVEMBER 10, 1938âDECEMBER 24, 2013 It was the first leg of a 48-hour fishing trip. Depending on the weather and the seasons, Joe typically makes this journey every other week, spending several days preparing the boat, then sailing Thursday morning and returning to shore late Saturday, at which point he and his crew stay up all night unloading tens of thousands of pounds of fish. Start to finish, the process takes 8Â1⁄2 days. During that period, Joe runs on four hours of daily sleep. Overnight, here in the Pacific, while everyone else on the boat was asleep, Joe had piloted the Pioneer to his favorite fishing grounds off the San Mateo coast. Now he was waiting for the right moment to lower the net, staring at a large screen connected to a sonar machine that pinpoints schools of fish underwater. Joe specializes in catching California groundfish, a class that includes about 90 deepwater varieties. Once a mainstay on Bay Area menus, the population of many types of groundfish collapsed in the late 1990s and rebounded only recently, which is why you donât often see them at supermarket seafood counters: coral-pink bocaccio, a type of rockfish with a spiny top fin and brutish jaw; chilipepper, a smaller cousin with cartoon-like bulging eyes; tender petrale sole; sand dabs, which are like miniature flounder. Though groundfish spend most of their time near the seafloor, some of the rockfish Joe targets drift up at night to sleep. Then they slowly make their way back down, away from the creeping sunlight, in search of squid and anchovies to eat. As the sun climbed that morning, solid bands of color started to form and twitch around on the screen, indicating that the fish had clustered near the ocean floor, like junior high kids finding their homeroom before the first bell. Joe got on the loudspeaker and told the crew it was time. Joleen was out on the deck. A tall, physically powerful woman who wears her graying blond hair in a braid and puts whiskey in her coffee, she asked deckhand Joe Drummond, a wiry man in cargo shorts, to lower the net. Joleen is the Pioneerâs second-in-command, in charge of scheduling the boatâs voyages and keeping the crew in line. The deckhand unhooked two rusty trawl doors from the sides of the boat and let them drop in the water, and Joleen stood by as metal cables unspooled, clattering as loudly as the diesel engine that rumbled below deck. Next, they dropped the yellow nylon net. It took 15 minutes to unfurl, pooling out behind the boat before finally sinking. âLetâs go fishing!â Joleen yelled. Joe sped up the boat, allowing the net to settle to the seafloor hundreds of feet below. Seagulls began assembling in the wake, and an albatross flew by, its wide wingspan and dark feathers distinguishing it from the gulls. As he waited for the net to fill over the course of two hours, he spotted a gray porpoise with white racing stripes playfully cross the shipâs path, grinning and pointing to it as if he were showing his kids the wonders of the ocean. âOK, letâs haul back,â Joe announced over the boatâs loudspeaker, ringing a bell to indicate it wa