Earlier this year, the YouTuber "MrBeast" (whose real name is Jimmy Donaldson) released a video titled "1,000 Blind People See For The First Time". In less than two weeks the video accumulated over 100 million views and generated intense debate. The wide-ranging responses - including from TIME, the BBC, SBS, VICE, the New Statesman, and the New York Times - touched upon practically every classic argument for and against philanthropy. While Donaldson's adoring fans saw the act as wholly praiseworthy, others expressed unease and despair, describing the video as "poverty porn" and a "deeply frustrating" reflection of contemporary life. Many lamented how access to a basic procedure only became available through the "random charity of a moneyed internet star", whose business model relies upon increasingly grand spectacles reaching hundreds of millions of people. Simply put, the video has sparked a wider reckoning on the ethics of philanthropy as a public spectacle. The eight-minute video opens with Donaldson standing in front of a cheering crowd, declaring he is on a mission to fund cataract surgery for 1,000 people. Made in partnership with the nonprofit SEE International, the video is a rapid-fire montage of personal stories and post-op reactions, capturing the overwhelming emotions and expressive gratitude of persons after receiving free cataract surgery. In one post-op scene, a father sees his son's face clearly for the first time until, ironically, his own tears blur his vision. Some participants in the video were also gifted extraordinary prizes. One young man - who informs Donaldson he has been subscribed to the MrBeast channel for eleven years - receives $50,000 for university fees after his surgery. Others receive briefcases with $10,000 cash, while another - who can drive for the first time with his improved vision - is given a Tesla. The video concludes with Donaldson pledging that they have performed the same surgery for people in Mexico, Honduras, and Indonesia, thus successfully reaching their 1,000-person goal. It's all masterfully structured, designed to stir your emotions and retain your attention until the very end of the video. But that's precisely what rang alarm bells for many viewers, whose dread and apprehension lay in witnessing how something so ostensibly heart-warming actually felt grimly dystopian. As the video itself acknowledges, cataract surgery is cheap, safe, and can enhance the autonomy of many millions across the globe. In well-functioning societies and with meaningful global solidarity, this would be an utterly mundane practice, easily accessible for all. Yet, in this case, it only became available through a "benevolent content king making feel-good videos". Some jokingly observed that Donaldson only aided the vision of 1,000 people to garner more potential viewers of his content. While Donaldson appears to be a decent person, acting honestly and in good faith, the joke contains a grain of truth. The MrBeast model of philanthropy wholly relies upon entertaining as many people as possible, and then using the subsequent advertisement revenue, brand deals, and merchandise sales to fund future philanthropic ventures. The resulting core dilemma, in its simplest form, is whether MrBeast is parasitically feeding off entrenched inequalities to build his brand, "exploiting disabled folks for clout and, ultimately, revenue". Alternatively, is Donaldson generously using his wealth and influence to promote valuable causes that could benefit millions, undertaking acts far more admirable than his contemporaries with similar influence and reach? Is it simultaneously both, a virtuous circle and novel innovation in "philanthro-capitalism" in packaging charitable giving as mass entertainment for a new generation? For what it's worth, SEE International were fulsome in their praise of Donaldson and the video, while the Fred Hollows Foundation were likewise "heartened to see greater awareness raised of avoidable blindness, particularly when 9 out of 10 people who are blind don't need to be." In a crowded attention economy, charitable causes are often desperately keen to find ways to cut through the noise, and thus a partnership with the biggest YouTuber in the world would be reckless to waste. Want the best of Religion & Ethics delivered to your mailbox? Sign up for our weekly newsletter. Still, there's no denying that the video falls squarely into the problematic territory of "inspiration porn". Coined by the late Stella Young, the term refers to instances where persons with disabilities are reduced to caricatures, paraded either for their resilience in "overcoming" their differences or as passive subjects waiting for cashed-up abled folk to "cure" them and save the day. By unabashedly embracing this genre, Donaldson's video proved both surgically precise in knowing what will capture an audience and yet crudely naïve in not anticipating a backlash. Even the thumbnail - the image displayed for each YouTube video when browsing - feels clumsily manipulative, featuring the heroic benefactor MrBeast with his arm around a child who has tears streaming down their face. The child does not appear in the video. Cracking the YouTube code By some distance, Donaldson is the most popular YouTuber on the planet, boasting over 130 million subscribers to his main channel alone, and over 80 million more across his other channels. In a recent three-month period, his YouTube videos were watched by a staggering 600 million people. You may not know who he is, but if you have kids or grandkids aged between 6 and 16, they know him and likely love him. It is hard to overstate how much influence this 24-year-old from North Carolina possesses and the intensity of affection among his many millions of fans. Arguably, no one understands YouTube better than Donaldson, who regularly confesses that his life has been a singular obsession with the platform after he first began posting videos in 2012. Revealing an acute insight into what makes for "viral" content - and his sheer relentless determination - Donaldson first found a mass audience through deliberately inane endurance challenges, such as counting to 100,000 in one sitting (which took over 40 hours). In 2016, Donaldson dropped out of university after only two weeks, reportedly telling his mother that he'd "rather be poor than do anything besides YouTube". As he gained followers and revenue the same basic formula remained, only drastically scaled up with ever more ambitious and outlandish spectacles. Today, one way to describe a typical MrBeast video would be "childhood hypotheticals made reality". That is, Donaldson takes the mind-wandering fantasies of our youth ("Wouldn't it be fun to play hide-and-seek in a shopping mall with 100 people?") and makes it happen. Featuring titles like "I Built Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory!", "Hydraulic Press Vs Lamborghini", and "World's Biggest Dodgeball Game", all MrBeast videos are crafted to pique viewer interest and can cost millions to produce. While most are seemingly fun and lighthearted, or feature Donaldson inflicting suffering on himself, others border on the cruel by exploiting the discomfort people are willing to endure for a cash reward. It doesn't work for everyone, and many will find a typical MrBeast video to be crass, gauche, extraordinary wasteful, and exhausting to watch. But like it or not, this manic style has proven incredibly effective, and they have it down to a fine art. Videos are tightly structured, edited at a frantic pace, smoothly incorporate sponsorships deals, and are stuffed with cross-promotion of the "MrBeast Burger" chain and "Feastables" snack range. For the uninitiated it can seem like bewildering nonsense, but it's all precisely engineered to maximise engagement. While many videos seem to celebrate little but pointless extravagance - such as handing out iPhones to kids on Halloween or eating $100,000 worth of ice-cream - Donaldson himself appears driven by a singular obsession with making content with the widest possible appeal. In interviews he has confessed that "building this business is like cocaine to me. I just don't know how to stop ... to me money is just fuel to grow the business and help people and not much else." Curiously, in the $100,000 ice-cream video - which also features Donaldson and friends eating $3,000 fried chicken, $5,000 mac and cheese, and $50,000 steak - Donaldson explains: My personal favorite videos to film are the ones where we help other people. But, sometimes we gotta splice stuff like this in. Videos like this help grow my audience, so when I do give away more money, I have more money to give away, if that makes sense? In other words, the decadence is not shamelessly wasteful, but carefully strategic, for it enhances their capacity to achieve more philanthropic ventures in the future. Suffice to say, this is a fine line to walk. Donaldson is undoubtedly brilliant, and in a world where influencers like Andrew Tate are corrupting young minds in extraordinarily harmful ways, there are far worse people who could hold the mantle of most popular YouTuber. Though Donaldson is oddly one-dimensional, with a mask that never drops, his demeanour is always affable and his content is family friendly. Still, his seeming obsession with growth and reach can manifest in a curious lack of reflection. This was perhaps most starkly obvious in a video - which cost $3.5 million to produce and has been watched over 360 million times - in which he recreated the Netflix series Squid Game, with 456 contestants competing for $456,000. Of course, unlike the series, the elimination of contestants did not end with their gruesome deaths. However, also absent was any recognition of the irony of it all, given Squid Game's blunt commentary on how class disparity enables economically precarious persons to be exploited for the entertainment of the wealthy. While this depthless quality is mostly harmless