did we mention that you will get Rs.
Key features: - Monthly Account limit of up to Rs.
You can transfer money to any of the following: Â· any bank account like HBL Konnect, UBL, Meezan, Alfalah, Allied, Askari, NBP etc.
Â· easypaisa account Â· Mobile wallets like JazzCash, SadaPay, NayaPay etc.
Pay Bills Pay all utility bills in one app: Â· electricity (IESCO, PESCO, K-Electric etc.) Â· gas (SNGPL, SSGC) Â· telephone (PTCL, SCO) Â· internet (Nayatel etc.) Â· water (CDA etc.) Â· government fees (e-Challan, FBR - Mobile Tax, etc.) Set reminders to pay bills Get data bundles for Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, TikTok.
Enjoy SMS or call packages 275+ Mobile packages for all networks Pay your post-paid bills Schedule your mobile load & packages payments Donate your zakat/charity through easypaisa digital bank app to 50+ donation organizations (including Shaukat Khanum, Edhi, Alkhidmat, MTJ, Indus Hospital, TCF etc.) Easycash Apply for easycash loan without any documents and get up to Rs.
25,000 in your account.
Tenor: Day of disbursement to no less than 60 Days Loan Amount: PKR 200 - PKR 25,000 Max APR: 32%-40% (customer is not charged more than 32% - 40% in a year for a loan) Personal Loans are only available to Pakistan Citizens in the territory of Pakistan Example of a loan with easypaisa: Loan Amount: PKR 20,000 Tenor: No less than 60 Days Service Fee: 32% Total service fee: PKR 6,400 Disbursed Amount: 20,000 Repayment Amount: 26,400 Repaying your loan is now more convenient!
Order food from restaurants Travel across Pakistan by booking hotels, flights and buses Get movie tickets Any complaints?
You can now update your personal information, file a complaint about a failed bank transfer, cancel a CNIC transaction, or alter the pin on your debit card using easypaisa app.
When I try to transfer money I receive OPT and when I try to write OPT in OPT field I canât write anything.
Enhance security features and improvements.
Version 5.6.8 The developer, Easypaisa bank limited, indicated that the appâs privacy practices may include handling of data as described below.
For more information, see the developerâs privacy policy .
Data Not Linked to You The following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity: Location Identifiers Usage Data Diagnostics Privacy practices may vary based, for example, on the features you use or your age.
