Every month, an editorial and related publications shed a light on a specific topic in IPIS' areas of research.
In the news: Conflict diamonds may be virtually extinct in 2021, but your sparkler could still be a blood diamond financing rogue regimes; How Allies of South Africa's Infamous Gupta Family Gamed the Country's Diamond Trade; Sahel: Amnesty identifies Serbian weapons in stockpiles of brutal armed groups.
New subscribers can register here to receive the briefing and updates on IPIS' new maps and reports.
It reports an average annual production of about 2,000 carats, with a value of ca.
USD 260,000.
This constitutes a fraction (0,00002%) of the average global production of 135 million carats, worth USD 12,7 billion, per year.
This is the last and since then only embargo of this scheme, which was launched in 2003, to bar conflict diamonds - defined(notoriously narrow) as "rough diamonds used by rebel movements or their allies to undermine legitimate governments" - from entering the mainstream rough diamond trade.
In fact, the embargo created the enabling conditions for smuggling activities, with increased involvement of armed and international criminal groups, to become the norm in CAR's diamond trade.
This development could not be stopped by the partial lifting of the embargo in 2015.
According to reports by the UN Panel of Experts on CAR and NGOs, the main transit hub for diamonds smuggled from this conflict-ridden country is Cameroon.
Kimberley Process controls Following the adoption of Decree No.
2011/3666/PM of November 2, 2011 on the Creation, Organisation and Functioning of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, Cameroon was accepted as Kimberley Process participant in June 2012.
Cameroon shares a porous 729-km long border as well as its only diamond deposit with CAR.
In light of this particularly challenging context, the imposition of the 2013 KPCS embargo on CAR, immediately put Cameroon's internal controls to the test.
These controls are even less up to the daunting task to avoid infiltration by the illicit flows from CAR that dwarf Cameroon's domestic production.
One of the most important shortcomings is the limited presence of and oversight by governmental actors in diamond mining areas.
In Boumba-et-Ngoko, for instance, which is one of the main diamond mining departments in Cameroon, the National Permanent Secretariat for the Kimberley Process has only 3 field agents to cover an area of over 30,000 km2.
These are supposed to perform basic duties such as gathering production statistics and checking the provenance of diamonds in all artisanal diamond mines.
Miners and middlemen, a number of them being refugees from CAR, despite this profession being legally reserved for Cameroonians, work clandestinely without the required licenses.
The substandard registration of production is a common challenge for countries with an artisanal diamond mining sector.
(Photo source: RELUFA) IN THE NEWS BUSINESS & HUMAN RIGHTS Diamond Dealers on Doing the Right Thing | 30 August 2021 | Rapaport Trust, reputation, integrity - these words are central to the diamond trade.
"Our business is like no other in that we've always conducted it on a handshake," says Maximo Quinones, president and CEO of wholesaler DVG Diamonds in Miami, Florida.
Castel of France to Probe Claims of African Militia Support | 22 August 2021 | Bloomberg Centrafrique: une entreprise française aurait conclu un "accord tacite" avec des groupes armés (ONG) | 18 August 2021 | Anadolu Agency Le Groupe Castel, géant français du sucre et des boissons, lié au financement de milices armées en République centrafricaine | August 2021 | The Sentry Une ONG américaine spécialisée dans l'investigation sur l'argent sale, "The Sentry" a révélé, mercredi, l'existence de ce qu'elle a qualifié d' "Accord tacite" entre le groupe français Castel et des groupes armés centrafricains.
Diamond Sector Says 'Thank You' to Consumers | 19 August 2021 | Rapaport A new consumer campaign by the Natural Diamond Council (NDC) and the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) is emphasizing the positive impact of mined stones.
L'entreprise chinoise est accusée de déforestation et destruction de la faune sauvage dans l'une des quatre aires protégées du Congo, qui demeurent sur la liste du patrimoine mondiale en péril.
DR Congo: Video of miners beaten for trespassing shows stranglehold of foreign mining interests | 28 July 2021 | France24 In southern DR Congo, soldiers beat and whipped two miners who were trespassing on a site managed by the Chinese-owned Commus company in Kolwezi, as site managers looked on.
However, sev
