20 Updated at 4 a.m.
ET Congress certified President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris' victory early on Thursday, the end of a long day and night marked by chaos and violence in Washington, D.C.
In a statement released just after the certification was finalized, Trump at long last acknowledged his election loss.
fight to ensure that only legal votes were counted.
While this represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history, it's only the beginning of our fight to Make America Great Again!" Dozens of Republican House lawmakers, along with some Republican senators supportive of Trump, had planned to object Wednesday to the electoral votes of as many as six states that backed Biden.
Loeffler was one of two Republicans who lost their races on Tuesday, giving Democrats control of the U.S.
Senate.
Missouri Republican Sen.
Josh Hawley, who took up Trump's call that lawmakers object to the results of the election, said Wednesday night that the Senate should consider his objections, but that they should be debated "without violence, without attacks, without bullets." Senate lawmakers voted late Wednesday to reject the challenge to Biden's victory in the state of Arizona, and the House followed suit, but with many Republicans in favor of overturning the state's results.
A similar result played out for the state of Pennsylvania, with both chambers voting to reject the challenge to Biden's victory there.
So the count continued, state by state, with Vermont's three electoral votes putting Biden and Harris over the 270 mark, until finally Wyoming's three electoral votes were tallied for Trump and Pence.
But as the process began, a mob of pro-Trump extremists stormed the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon, bringing the counting of the electoral votes to a halt.
Around 8 p.m.
At their worst, they can incite." As the chaos unfolded, some House Democrats have called for impeaching the president again during his final two weeks in office.
Rep.
"We can't allow him to remain in office, it's a matter of preserving our republic," she wrote.
called the president "a traitor to our country and our Constitution" and called for him to be removed from office "and prevented from further endangering our country and our people." Donald Trump is a traitor to our country and our Constitution.
2/2 - Katherine Clark (@WhipKClark) January 6, 2021 Trump also faced critics within his own party for his role in egging on the mob.
