James Versalovic that aired on Sunday, September 12, 2021, on "Face the Nation." MARGARET BRENNAN: We are going to go now to Dr.
DR.
MARGARET BRENNAN: So 25% of new infections in this country are among children for the people that you are taking care of.
How are they getting infected?
VERSALOVIC: Well, we're seeing record numbers here at Texas Children's throughout Texas, and of course, as the story unfolds across the country, it's not just a regional problem, but a national problem.
We have seen record numbers of cases reported by the day by the week.
We continue to be on a high plateau and the reality is that we may be headed to another peak or to another valley if we all pull together.
MARGARET BRENNAN: Earlier in the program, we spoke with a former FDA commissioner, Dr.
Scott Gottlieb, who was predicting that you could potentially see a vaccine by Halloween that's available for kids five to 11.
Do you agree with that timeline?
Do you recommend to parents that when it's available, they give it to their child?
DR.
VERSALOVIC: Yes, we certainly are aiming for that timeline in October of this year to have the data here put together at Texas Children's as we continue to work with children.
We are well into phase two-three, working with leading children's hospitals across the country and partners such as Pfizer and Moderna.
That is our goal, October.
We are doing everything we can now to move these trials ahead and they're moving ahead well.
Thus far we are on track, and I certainly would agree with Dr.
Gottlieb that we are doing all we can to get vaccines to children in the fall.
In the meantime, use masking and other measures to keep our children safe and reassure parents that help is on the way in the form of vaccines for children under 12.
Are you seeing these infections develop in the form of some of these syndromes, like MIS-C?
VERSALOVIC: Well, in addition to prevention, MARGARET, we need to continue to emphasize to all parents and families the importance of timely diagnosis through testing.
Once the child is displaying symptoms, respiratory symptoms that could be consistent with COVID, COVID pneumonia, fever could be shortness of breath, other symptoms.
It's the only way we can make an accurate diagnosis and then triage the care appropriately.
We know that there are children with underlying medical conditions that are putting them at greater risk for severe COVID pneumonia, such as obesity, Down's syndrome, diabetes, pulmonary conditions.
But we do have medications to treat children.
We want to keep children out of the hospital and the reality is timely diagnosis is key.
The reality is that children may need ICU-based care, and we're seeing that today.
MARGARET BRENNAN: Ok.
VERSALOVIC: So, we need to continue to remind parents, too, that beyond the acute infection, we could have MIS-C three to six weeks after infection.
