As the highly contagious Delta variant continues to spread, many hospitals are reporting record numbers of children being hospitalized, especially in areas with low vaccination rates, including Arkansas, Florida, Missouri and Texas.
Dr.
"They are currently our most vulnerable population, just as this highly transmissible variant is surging across the country," Propst says.
The New York Times reports, in a single day last week, Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock had 19 hospitalized children; Johns Hopkins All Children's Hospital in St.
Some of the children were in the intensive care unit.
Mark Kline, physician-in-chief at Children's Hospital New Orleans.
MARK KLINE: I have to tell you that I am as worried about our children today as I have ever been.
This virus, the Delta variant of COVID, is every infectious disease specialist's and epidemiologist's worst nightmare.
...
As the governor mentioned, there was a myth that circulated during the first year of the epidemic that children somehow were immune.
AMY GOODMAN: In Florida, where many schools reopen today, the sharpest spike in COVID cases has recently been in children under the age of 12.
As of Sunday, Florida had 172 children being treated in hospitals for COVID - the highest number in the country.
This comes as Florida's Republican Governor Ron DeSantis is threatening to defund the salaries of school officials who mandate mask wearing in schools.
This comes as pediatric wards in Houston are nearing or at capacity.
Christina Propst.
She is a physician, a pediatrician at a private practice and a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics' Council on Children and Disasters.
Propst, thanks so much for being with us.
CHRISTINA PROPST: Right now we are in an unfortunate situation where the Delta virus is prevalent.
The Delta variant of COVID-19 is the prevalent circulating variant in this country.
And as I'm sure you and your listeners know, children under age 12 are currently still ineligible to be vaccinated against COVID-19.
They are currently our most vulnerable population, just as this highly transmissible variant is surging across the country, notably in Texas, in Florida, in Louisiana, in Arkansas, Missouri and many other states.
There have been reports that many children are suffering from lingering physical, mental and neurological symptoms as result of sometimes an infection that is very mild or asymptomatic.
DR.
That is one of the greatest concerns, I would say, for pediatricians, and, frankly, should be one of the greatest concerns for parents across the country right now.
There is a condition, as many people have heard, called long COVID.
From day one, children have been undertested in this country.
So, long COVID, now also known as post-acute sequelae of COVID-19, is a condition that can arise weeks to months later and generally involves a constellation of symptoms, including the brain fog many people have heard of, aches, low-grade fevers, a malaise that just won't go away, a lack of energy.
The vast majority of children do not require hospitalization for COVID-19.
However, that does not mean they are safe or somehow immune from long COVID or from multisystem inflammatory conditions that can occur post-COVID infection.
CHRISTINA PROPST: It's so frustrating, as a pediatrician and as a parent.
I feel for parents who are making these difficult decisions right now, whether to homeschool.
Many have done away with the plexiglass and some of the other COVID-mitigating modes and modalities in their classrooms.
Our governor, unfortunately, has taken our children's lives and is using it in a political game of chicken.
Masks are the last best hope of defense for children who are vulnerable, and that includes every single child under age 12 right now.
Unfortunately, it also includes a huge proportion of our population of school-age children who are eligible, who are between ages 12 and 17.
Currently only 30% of tweens and adolescents in that age group are fully vaccinated.
And so, pediatricians across the country and the American Academy of Pediatrics are begging parents to get their children vaccinated before the start of school.
AMY GOODMAN: Would you say, Dr.
Christina Propst, that the governor is threatening the health of the children of Texas?
DR.
Private schools have issued mask mandates.
Private schools are doing pooled testing and screening for symptoms.
And so, that includes our unvaccinated children under age 12 who are in perhaps the poorest performing, oldest schools, with the most overcrowding, with the oldest school buildings, with the poorest ventilation.
Those children have a disproportionately high incidence of some comorbidities that even put them at higher risk - asthma, a high BMI or obesity.
So, those children absolutely will be disproportionately affected by this purely political and unfortunate decision by our governor.
AMY GOODMAN: Dr.
We'll be back with her in a moment.
But less doesn't mean zero.
And there are a lot of children now - all you need to do is do a survey of the pediatric hospitals throughout the country, and you're seeing a considerable number of young people who are not
