Texas Nurse Loses Job After Apparently Posting About Patient In Anti-Vaxxer Group A hospital in Texas has cut ties with a nurse who apparently posted about a young patient with the measles in a Facebook group dedicated to "anti-vaxxers," people who reject the scientific evidence of the safety and effectiveness of vaccines.
Screenshots show a self-identified nurse saying the sick child's symptoms helped her understand why people vaccinate their children, but that "I'll continue along my little non-vax journey with no regrets." Texas Children's Hospital tells NPR via email that a nurse "posted protected health information regarding a patient on social media." The hospital did not name the nurse.
"We take these matters very seriously as the privacy and well-being of our patients is always a top priority," hospital spokeswoman Veronika Javor-Romeis tells NPR.
"After an internal investigation, this individual is no longer with the organization." She also confirmed that the hospital is treating a measles patient and that the hospital will be assessing the risk posed to other children who may have come in contact with the patient.
But to prevent outbreaks and protect those who are not vaccinated, a high enough percentage of the population must be vaccinated to create "herd immunity." Lower vaccination rates for measles and other preventable diseases have been tied to outbreaks in the U.S.
Javor-Romeis says all staff are "strongly encouraged" to receive routine immunizations, and that employees who opt out may not be allowed to work in some areas of the hospital.
The group has since been deleted.
According to those screenshots, a user who said she worked as a PICU/ER nurse at the West Campus of Texas Children's Hospital told the group, "for the first time in my career I saw Measles this week." "Honestly, it was rough.
it was terrible," she said.
In a follow-up she said she deleted some responses to avoid risking her job, and reiterated "we are not wrong in our beliefs/convictions." Another screenshot shows her saying she considered "swabbing his mouth" to bring a live measles sample home to her child.
"We take these matters very seriously." "The views of this employee do not represent that of the organization," the hospital added shortly after.
On Monday, the Houston Health Department said the case, which it described as "suspected" measles, involves a child between the ages of 1 and 3 who recently traveled overseas.
Before this patient, the last confirmed case of measles in Houston was in 2013, ABC 13 reports.
