Rajasthan Election Results highlights: The electoral politics of Rajasthan did not see any change in its three-decade tradition of voting out the incumbent party as the BJP is all set to form the government.
In 2018, the Congress won the state in a majority bringing the Vasundhara Raje government to an end.
Ashok Gehlot became the chief minister and Sachin Pilot his deputy but what followed was a long infighting inside the Congress which cost Sachin Pilot the deputy chief minister post in 2020....Read More The exit polls predicted a close fight between the BJP and the Congress, but the BJP managed a comfortable majority widening the gap with the Congress as the counting proceeded on Sunday.
Ashok Gehlot conceded defeat and admitted that the results were shocking, unexpected.
Rajasthan Result: Big winners Former CM and BJP candidate from Jhalrapatan, Vasundhara Raje won by a margin of 53,193 votes, garnering a total of 1,38,831 votes.
Sachin Pilot wins by a margin of 29,475, garnering a total of 1,05,812 votes.
A member of the erstwhile Jaipur royal family, Diya Kumari defeated Congress candidate Sitaram Agrawal and polled 1,58,516 votes.
BJP MP and candidate from Jhotwara Assembly constituency Rajyavardhan Rathore won by a margin of 50,167, garnering a total of 1,47,913 votes.
The Congress won 69 seats.
He was defeated by Congress candidate Narendra Budania by a margin of 10,345 votes.
Rajasthan Assembly Speaker and senior Congress leader CP Joshi suffered defeat at the hands of BJP candidate Vishwaraj Singh Mewar by a margin of 7,504 votes in Nathdwara.
On BJP's Rajasthan election win, PM Modi's broke this rule reaction Congress turncoats lose seats in Bari, Nagaur Congress turncoats lost their seats in Bari and Nagaur in the Rajasthan assembly elections on Sunday, the Election Commission's poll data showed.
Girraj Singh Malinga, sitting MLA from Bari who switched over to BJP from the Congress, lost the seat to Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Jaswant Singh Gurjar by a margin of 27,424 votes.
Former Congress MP Jyoti Mirdha, who also joined the BJP and contested from Nagaur, lost to her Congress rival Harendra Mirdha by a margin of 14,620 votes, the Election Commission's website showed.
PM Modi says poll outcome win for 'Aatmanirbharta', attacks Oppn's caste census push Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the assembly election results are a win for 'Aatmanirbharta' and 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas'.
Addressing jubilant party workers at the BJP headquarters in the national capital, he said, "Today's victory in assembly elections is historic and unprecedented.
It is the victory of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' and self-reliant India".
Deep dive Rajasthan assembly election: Only 9 of 25 Gehlot's ministers win Only nine out of 25 contesting ministers, including the chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the outgoing cabinet, managed to win while only three out of seven contesting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs lost the battle in the state assembly election held on November 25, with results declared on Sunday.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Gehlot reaches Governor's house, resigns Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Ashok Gehlot has reached the Governor's house to submit his resignation from the CM post.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: BJP breaks into Congress's traditional vote bank of SC/ST Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: The BJP made a major dent in Congress by breaking into its traditional SC and ST community vote bank.
The BJP won 22 of 34 SC seats, Congress 11 and one by independent.
Similarly of the 25 ST seats, the BJP won 12, Congress 10 and BAP 3.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Several ministers defeated Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: The defeated ministers of the Gehlot cabinet include the Minority Affairs Minister Saleh Muhammed in Pokaran, Women and Child Development Minister Mamata Bhupesh in Sikarai, State Education Minister Zahida Khan in Kaman, Higher Education Minister Rajendra Yadav in Kotputli, Rural Development Minister Ramesh Meena in Sapotra, Education Minister Bulaki Das Kalla in Bikaner West, Civil Supplies Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas in Civil Lines, Commerce and Trade Minister Shakuntala Rawat in Bansur, and Civil Aviation Minister Vishvendra Singh in Deeg-Kumher.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Jairam Ramesh's 'judega Bharat' message Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: "Exactly 20 years ago, the Indian National Congress had lost the state elections in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, while winning only Delhi.
But within a few months, the party bounced back and went on to emerge as the single largest party in the Lok Sabha polls and formed the government at the Centre.
It is with hope, confidence and a firm sense of resolve and resilience that the Indian National Congress prepares for the forthcoming Lok Sabha polls.
Judega Bharat, Jeetega INDIA!" Jairam Ramesh wrote on X.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Results are shocking, says Ashok Gehlot Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Ashok Gehlot said he accepts the result with humility.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: PM Modi thanks Rajasthan "We bow to the Janta Janardan.
The results in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan indicate that the people of India are firmly with politics of good governance and development, which the @BJP4India stands for.
I thank the people of these states for their unwavering support and assure them that we will keep working tirelessly for their well-being.
A special thanks to the hardworking Party Karyakartas.
Each of them is exemplary!
They have worked tirelessly and highlighted our development agenda among the people," PM Modi tweeted.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Gehlot concedes defeat Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Sachin Pilot thanks Tonk for blessings.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Sachin Pilot thanks Tonk after winning Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Disappointing, says Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: "...I also thank all those who voted for us in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.
Our performance in these three states have no doubt been disappointing, but with determination, we reaffirm our strong resolve to rebuild and revive ourselves in these three states," Mallikarjun Kharge tweeted.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Gehlot likely to meet Governor at 5.30pm and resign Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Ashok Gehlot is likely to meet Governor Kalraj Mishra and resign from the CM post conceding defeat.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: In BJP spokesperson's message, mention of Kanhaiya Lal Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: BJP national spokesperson Shehzad Poonawala referred to the Udaipur tailor Kanhaiya Lal's murder case as he thanked Rajasthan.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Vasundhara Raje says victory of PM Modi's 'sabka saath' "This victory is of the mantra of 'Sabka saath, sabka vishwas and sabka prayaas' given by PM Modi.
It is the victory of the guarantee given by the PM.
It is also the victory of the strategy given by Amit Shah and the able leadership provided by Nadda ji.
Most importantly, it's a victory for our party workers," Vasundhara Raje said.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Only one guarantee works: Rajyavardhan Rathore's post Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Balak Nath leading Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: BJP MP and candidate from Tijara, Baba Balak Nath leading by a margin of 4807 votes after the 12th round of counting, garnering a total of 64,579 votes so far.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Diya Kumari leading by a margin of 56,025 votes Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: BJP MP and candidate from Diya Kumari from Vidhyadhar Nagar leading by a margin of 56,025 votes after the 17th round of counting, garnering a total of 1,30,231 votes so far.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Govind Singh Dostara leading Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: State Congress president and candidate from Lachhmangarh, Govind Singh Dotasra leading by a margin of 4,205 votes after the seventh round of counting, garnering a total of 32,725 votes so far.
