Update Dec.
6.
For the first time since 1960, the separate unions representing the writers and the actors went on strike simultaneously, bringing production of television shows, movies and more to a halt for months.
The Writers Guild of America strike ended on Sept.
27 after four months of picket lines.
They secured an agreement for increased minimums, bonuses on residuals tied to viewership for streaming, and rules about artificial intelligence.
The Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists ended its strike on Nov.
10 with an agreement of their own governing the use of artificial intelligence and a creation of a fund to pay actors residuals for future viewings of their work on streaming services.
The world's second-largest economy has seen declines in key economic metrics and faced a debt crisis among some of its largest real estate developers.
Xi, 70, also had not spoken with Biden for more than a year, raising fears of rising tensions before the two met last month in San Francisco.
They agreed to revive communication between the U.S.
and Chinese militaries, crack down on fentanyl trafficking and work to address the use of artificial intelligence.
But the two leaders' differences over the status of Taiwan remain a sticking point.
Swift, 33, also created a frenzy by appearing in person at multiple Chiefs games this season to cheer on Kelce and hang out with his mom, Donna.
On Nov.
17, the board of the nonprofit that oversees OpenAI said it removed Altman as CEO, saying he was not "consistently candid" in his dealings with the board.
The company appointed two interim CEOs before the staff threatened to resign en masse, ultimately resulting in Altman being reinstated as CEO and multiple board members being ousted.
His reign has coincided with high inflation and economic woes in Britain, as well as turmoil in the royal family.
His son, Prince Harry, opened up about their relationship and his rift with Prince William in his best-selling memoir, "Spare." The monarch's relationship with his wife, Queen Camilla, and the deterioration of his marriage to the late Princess Diana have also been depicted in the Netflix hit "The Crown." Charles is also dealing with the fallout of a controversial new book about the royal family.
The British press has widely reported that the Dutch translation of "Endgame" by Omid Scobie named him and the Princess of Wales as allegedly having commented on the skin color of the unborn son of Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, when she was pregnant with Archie.
The author denied printing the names in the manuscript, while Buckingham Palace has declined comment.
Jerome Powell The chair of the Federal Reserve has had investors and consumers paying close attention to his decisions about whether to raise or freeze interest rates as he tries to navigate the U.S.
through high inflation without triggering a recession.
Higher interest rates have made it more expensive for those looking to buy homes and automobiles, as well as businesses looking to secure loans, but inflation also has been lowered since reaching a peak last year.
The Federal Reserve did not raise interest rates in September and October after a series of increases in 2022 and earlier this year that pushed rates for a 30-year home loan past 7% to their highest total in 22 years.
Powell is trying to get inflation back down to 2% after it peaked at 9.1% annually in June 2022.
Barbie At a time when trips to the movie theater had drastically declined in the wake of the pandemic, director Greta Gerwig's pink-splashed take on feminism and the iconic Mattel toy brought everyone back in droves.
The "Barbie" movie became a worldwide phenomenon, becoming the year's highest-grossing film at more than $1.3 billion and spawning memes and joyous scenes at movie theaters across the country.
The movie starring Margot Robbie as the title character and Ryan Gosling as Ken also became one half of the phenomenon known as "Barbenheimer," in which people went and saw "Barbie" and then the film "Oppenheimer" about the director of the project that created the atomic bomb.
Vladimir Putin The president of Russia has presided over a grinding war with Ukraine that began when Russia invaded the neighboring country in February 2022 under Putin's orders.
has shown steadfast financial, logistical and military support for Ukraine since the beginning of a war in which hundreds of thousands have been killed.
In a stunning challenge to his authority in Russia, Putin withstood a mutiny led by Yevgeny Prigozhin, the leader of the mercenary Wagner Group in June.
Wagner fighters captured a Russian city before marching on Moscow but halted their advance after a deal brokered by the Belarusian president allowed Prigozhin and his fighters to leave for Belarus.
Prigozhin and several of his top men were then killed in a plane crash outside Moscow in August, which Putin denied was a revenge assassination for the mutiny.
Bragg was also sent death threats.
