Previous selections include U.S.
President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, Martin Luther King Jr., German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Pope Francis, and activist Greta Thunberg.
Here are the finalists.
Hollywood strikers Hollywood screenwriters and actors were on strike throughout the year, putting a pause on the creation and filming of new and current shows and movies-a rare show of the power of both labor and the entertainment industry.
Both the Writers Guild of America (WGA) and the Screen Actors Guild (SAG)-AFTRA have resumed work; the WGA has already signed a new contract while SAG has a tentative agreement and has yet to ratify its new contract with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers.
Swift's Eras tour is also on track to become the highest-grossing global tour of all time.
President to be indicted in the nation's history, charged in four separate cases with more than 90 charges.
Felony counts have been brought forward by prosecutors in Florida, Georgia, New York, and Washington, D.C., for election interference, illegally holding on to classified documents, and falsifying business records.
Barbie Fans-especially women and girls-flocked to the cinema to see the first-ever live-action Barbie movie, the most highly-anticipated film of the year, starring Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling.
The film made clear the possibility for theatrical success remains even in a streaming world.
Vladimir Putin Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has held the role of President or Prime Minister of Russia since 1999, continued to wage war in Ukraine, now in its second year after the full-scale invasion.
Putin faced a brief threat to his power in 2023 during the Wagner rebellion, but his influence was only reinforced in the end, as the mercenary group retreated when a deal was struck by Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko.
(Yevgeny Prigozhin, the leader of the Wagner group, later died in a plane crash).
King Charles III After a decades-long wait for the throne, King Charles III took his position as the head monarch of the United Kingdom, and other territories, this May.
At a moment of change for the monarchy, he signified the power of tradition.
Jerome Powell Jerome Powell, who has been Chairman of the Federal Reserve since February 2018, has played a key role managing high inflation in the U.S., trying to architect the so-called "soft landing" of reducing inflation by raising interest rates without causing a recession-a goal felt in the wallets of Americans and economies across the world.
