The Congress government has been formed in Himachal Pradesh once again.
The Congress wrested a state from the Bhartiya Janata Party and formed the government with absolute majority.
For the BJP, Himachal Pradesh was a state to which its prestige was attached in many ways.
Firstly, it is the home state of BJP National President JP Nadda.
Secondly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked here as in-charge for a long time.
That is why during the election campaign, he kept saying that âHimachal is my second homeâ.
Thirdly, Himachal has the largest population of followers of Hinduism in the country.
Himachalâs election results have proved many things altogether.
Firstly, if the citizens are educated and aware, they cannot be misled or tricked in any way.
We have to consider that Himachal comes second only to Kerala in terms of literacy and has a large number of government employees.
Himachal is also the state that sends the maximum number of soldiers to the army.
Thatâs why all the tricks of the BJP failed here - Neither the slogan of implementing Article 370 in Kashmir worked, nor the lie of taking the countryâs economy to the heights, nor the promise of implementing âUniform Civil Codeâ in the manifesto had any effect.
Himachal is also known as the âLand of Heroesâ.
Neither there was crowd in his meetings nor his words had any effect on people.
Victory was achieved only at places where he could not reach allegedly due to bad weather.
In fact, it is a Party that creates rifts and incites Hindu sentiments, and whenever elections are held on public issues, its Hindutva, used as a weapon, will prove to be blunt (futile).
And the last thing, it has been proved that the Congress in this country is deep-rooted and is bouncing back.
It is okay that Congress did not get success in the last few elections, but to consider defeat as the end of a political party like Congress would be like underestimating the democratic tradition of India and the power of the people.
With the slogan âHimachal ka rivazjaarihai â Congress phir se aa rahihaiâ, the Indian National Congress has proved the BJPâs alleged âdouble engineâ government in Himachal Pradesh to be a âtrouble engineâ government.
Congress fought a strong battle at every front.
On one hand was going on the âBharat Jodo Yatraâ in the country under the leadership of Shri Rahul Gandhi and on the other hand elections in Himachal - the issues of both were same - rising inflation, rising unemployment, anarchy and fear.
Congress contested Himachal elections with 10 guarantees, which included issues like restoration of old pension scheme, five lakh jobs with one lakh government jobs, Rs.
1500 per month to women, 300 units of free electricity, fair price to apple growers.
As a media in-charge, it was my responsibility to take every guarantee given by the Congress to every house through the media.
The public made up its mind to have Congress win by voting for it, which later turned into victory.
Smt.
Priyanka Gandhiji played an important role in the Himachal elections.
Five huge meetings and the âresponseâ received from the people in those meetings was writing the story of victory in these elections.
Smt.
Priyanka Gandhi contested for the first time in Himachal elections and got endeared to its people.
In all these meetings, senior observer appointed by AICC in Himachal Pradesh and Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Bhupesh Baghel accompanied her.
Although, Bhupesh Baghel ji addressed some rallies by himself.
Apart from this, his role behind the scenes in the elections was remarkable too.
The way his Chhattisgarh team handled the elections proved that winning equations can be made with the right strategy.
Himachal Pradesh Congress In-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Shri Rajeev Shukla led by Himachal Congress President Smt.
Election was fought in a very disciplined manner uniting and coordinating with the booth level workers.
This victory is the victory of efficient leadership of Congress over an incompetent BJP government.
Today, there is a Congress government in Himachal Pradesh.
I congratulate and convey my best wishes to all the Congress workers and the government on this victory.
May both live up to the expectations of the people of Himachal Pradesh.
The author is an Ex.
MLA & AICC Delegate
