Bridges SMS interviewed H.E.
Here are some key insights.
H.E.
I'd say it's more than 600 years.
We have nearly 100,000 Japanese nationals living here.
There are approximately 6,000 Japanese companies here, and we are top investors in terms of the stock base.
We have the number one status in terms of population, in terms of the number of companies, and in terms of investment.
So, we will strive to develop together.
To achieve this, we will continue to cooperate, hand-in-hand as equal partners.
That is, I think the key word is co-creation-to create together.
Although I only assumed my post here in December 2019, I can say that I do love it here.
The cultural exchange is so significant.
Of course, that has been affected by the pandemic, in recent years.
The last two years have actually been very quiet, activity-wise, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
But, while there have not been many visits since the start of the pandemic, Minister Hagiuda, the minister of METI (Ministry of Trade and Industry) came here in January, after a two-year absence of any inter-ministerial level visit to Thailand.
And Prime Minister Kishida came in May.
Unlike his previous visits, which were mainly for international conferences such as ASEAN meetings, PM Kishida's recent visit was had a bilateral agenda.
In the same month, the highest leaders of both countries exchanged visits.
This is very significant, and now that COVID restrictions have eased, we anticipate more visits, moving forward.
As I said earlier, we look forward to achieving more milestones and to continuing our cooperation in various sectors.
And they also export all over the world.
However, there are changes underway.
Thailand is no exception from the global push to more environmentally responsible options, so they are now shifting progressively to Electric Vehicles (EV).
Aside from the areas I mentioned above, there is also room to collaborate for advancements in agriculture-for example, introducing the use of IoT technology within the agricultural sector.
We also see the opportunity, as well as the need, to develop human resources, especially among the younger work force.
This is something we need, from now on, for even stronger and better cooperation between two countries, moving forward.
H.E.
But of course, formal diplomatic relations were established in 1887.
In September this year, we will celebrate the 135th anniversary.
So far, this has been a year of numerous high-level exchange visits-the past two years, COVID-19 prevented such visits.
On the occasion of the 135th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations, the two leaders saw merit in considering the elevation of the bilateral relations from a Strategic Partnership to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.
With regard to people exchange, both countries and our people have a very good friendship and very cordial relations.
We all love each other.
For many years in the past, we've had a Thai Festival at Yoyogi Park in Tokyo; but with the pandemic, we had to cancel that festival.
Last year, though, we organized a small Thai festival, like a "Drama Festival," at our embassy.
This year, we had our first-ever online Thai Festival with the theme of "Thai Pop" or "T-Pop" We chose those themes because over the pandemic, people were forced to stay at home, and Thai drama was among the top dramas that Japanese people watched at home.
So, I think within these contexts, on all levels, we see the relations between the two countries growing even stronger and closer.
What are some of the recent milestones you can point to, within this diplomatic relationship?
The exchange of visits between the two leaders in May 2022 is a recent milestone.
I believe that from now on the exchanges of visit between the two countries will be more and more.
We also have cultural exchange milestones; for example, in sumo wrestling.
Five years ago, my predecessor started the Thailand-Japan Friendship Cup, presenting a trophy for the winner of the sumo tournament in Tokyo.
Now , we are going to expand this cup, not only for the tournaments in Tokyo, but also for the ones in Nagoya, Osaka and Fukuoka.
This year, we will be able to cover all six tournaments throughout the year.
A statue of King Rama V is also situated there.
I would also like to mention a milestone of cooperation, related to Japan's KOSEN system and their technical colleges.
We know that the Japanese industry is in need of technicians-they need the personnel.
