Rajasthan Election Results highlights: BJP wins 115 seats, Cong bags 69 Rajasthan Election Results LIVE 2023: The BJP is all set to form the new government in the state which showed incumbent Congress the door.
Rajasthan Election Results highlights: The electoral politics of Rajasthan did not see any change in its three-decade tradition of voting out the incumbent party as the BJP is all set to form the government.
In 2018, the Congress won the state in a majority bringing the Vasundhara Raje government to an end.
Ashok Gehlot conceded defeat and admitted that the results were shocking, unexpected.
Rajasthan Result: Big winners Former CM and BJP candidate from Jhalrapatan, Vasundhara Raje won by a margin of 53,193 votes, garnering a total of 1,38,831 votes.
BJP candidate and Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari won the Vidhyadhar Nagar seat in the Rajasthan Assembly polls on Sunday by a margin of 71,368 votes.
Big defeat Rajasthan Assembly Speaker CP Joshi loses Nathdwara seat to BJP's Vishvaraj Singh Mewar by 7,504 votes Rajasthan election results: Final figures are here In Rajasthan, the BJP has won 115 seats out of 199 seats clearly on the way to ousting the incumbent Ashok Gehlot government.
Rajasthan election results: Speaker CP Joshi, LoP Rajendra Rathore lose Leader of Opposition in Rajasthan Assembly and BJP leader Rajendra Rathore lost from Taranagar.
He was defeated by Congress candidate Narendra Budania by a margin of 10,345 votes.
Rajasthan Assembly Speaker and senior Congress leader CP Joshi suffered defeat at the hands of BJP candidate Vishwaraj Singh Mewar by a margin of 7,504 votes in Nathdwara.
Rajasthan election result: How Sachin Pilot fared in Tonk?
Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister and senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot won from Tonk by a margin of 29,475 votes.
He defeated the BJP's Ajit Singh Mehta.
Girraj Singh Malinga, sitting MLA from Bari who switched over to BJP from the Congress, lost the seat to Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Jaswant Singh Gurjar by a margin of 27,424 votes.
Deep dive Elections results 2023: PM Modi arrives at BJP HQ; will address party workers shortly Prime Minister Narendra Modi has arrived at BJP headquarter in New Delhi.
He will address BJP workers shortly.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: BJP breaks into Congress's traditional vote bank of SC/ST Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: The BJP made a major dent in Congress by breaking into its traditional SC and ST community vote bank.
Similarly of the 25 ST seats, the BJP won 12, Congress 10 and BAP 3.
But within a few months, the party bounced back and went on to emerge as the single largest party in the Lok Sabha polls and formed the government at the Centre.
Judega Bharat, Jeetega INDIA!" Jairam Ramesh wrote on X.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Results are shocking, says Ashok Gehlot Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Ashok Gehlot said he accepts the result with humility.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: PM Modi thanks Rajasthan "We bow to the Janta Janardan.
Each of them is exemplary!
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Gehlot concedes defeat Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Sachin Pilot thanks Tonk for blessings.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: In BJP spokesperson's message, mention of Kanhaiya Lal Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: BJP national spokesperson Shehzad Poonawala referred to the Udaipur tailor Kanhaiya Lal's murder case as he thanked Rajasthan.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: 'No question': Vasundhara Raje Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: In her first press conference on the result day, Vasundhara Raje thanked top BJP leadership but evaded question on CM post, on whether she would be the CM in the new BJP government.
It is the victory of the guarantee given by the PM.
It is also the victory of the strategy given by Amit Shah and the able leadership provided by Nadda ji.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Only one guarantee works: Rajyavardhan Rathore's post Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Balak Nath leading Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: BJP MP and candidate from Tijara, Baba Balak Nath leading by a margin of 4807 votes after the 12th round of counting, garnering a total of 64,579 votes so far.
