In an election that could go down to the wire, his immediate concern is voting percentage.
"And how much is ours?" he asks.
Ahirwal vs Mewat The Congress has fielded 36-year-old Imran Khan, a former Bahujan Samaj Party leader who has not formally joined the party, but was granted a ticket just days before the deadline to file nominations.
The battle lines are laid down clearly in the "us versus them" metric, and the binary that Mr.
The new political map has not erased the ancient Ahirwal-Mewat boundaries.
Ahirwal was a post-Mughal principality ruled by Ahirs or Yadavs.
The Mewat region is populated by Muslims and Dalits.
In the 12 Assembly elections held since 1967, the seat has been held by Muslim candidates seven times and by Yadavs five times.
The list of winning candidates include former Rajasthan Chief Minister Barkatullah Khan.
Mr.
Nath, who is a mahant of the Nath sect of Hinduism, was born into a Yadav family and is also one of the aspirants for the Chief Minister's post in the faction-ridden State unit of the BJP.
The only time the BJP has won the Tijara seat was in 2013.
"We want to show him the condition of our village.
With his next breath, he adds, "But I have heard that he could be the CM, so I guess it would be good to place our bets on him." Another man in his mid-40s listening in to the conversation offers his perspective.
"No Muslim legislator has ever worked for Mewat.
Last time, we had BSP MLA Sandeep Yadav, who later joined Congress.
He also worked only for Ahirwal.
No one wants to bring development to Mewat," he proclaims, refusing to divulge his identity because he is a central government servant.
'Communal agenda' This is the same pitch adopted by Mr.
Khan.
Mr.
Khan has been busy lodging complaints against Mr.
The use of bulldozers in the BJP campaign is an ode to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, whose moniker Mr.
Nath has adopted to brand himself as "Rajasthan ka Yogi".
Mr.
He carefully selects his words and has also given a diktat to his followers not to make any remark that could be misconstrued as a communal slur.
Published - November 12, 2023 03:25 am IST
