From MP to MLA to chief minister of Rajasthan?
One of the first to greet him outside Parliament was veteran Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who jokingly told reporters, "Arey Rajasthan ka naya CM ban raha hai na (he's the new CM of Rajasthan).
Chowdhury's remark was seemingly offhand and in jest, but behind the banter may lie a grain of truth.
In public, the native of Haryana has made all the right noises.
"I never claimed I would be chief minister.
I was sent by the party to contest the Vidhan Sabha elections.
My first duty is with my people in Alwar constituency, and I have served them with all my might.
I have nothing more to say," he has been quoted as saying.
Before him, his mentor Mahant Chandnath represented Alwar in the Lok Sabha, but died of cancer in 2017, two years before the end of his term as MP.
Like the Lok Sabha seat, Balaknath has also taken over the math in Haryana's Rohtak from Chandnath.
The math currently runs a university, colleges and schools in Rohtak, and Balaknath was groomed by his mentor to oversee all of it.
As the eighth mahant of the Nath sect.
Balaknath was anointed by Mahant Chandnath on 29 July 2016, officially declared his mentor's successor in a ceremony attended by Yogi Adityanath - soon to become chief minister of Uttar Pradesh - and godman-entrepreneur Baba Ramdev.
In fact, Chandnath was one of two surprise candidates whom the party fielded prior to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
Though a Jat from Haryana, Sumedhanand was actually born in Punjab.
When he was fielded from Sikar in Rajasthan, there was initial opposition from the Jat community, but he still defeated fellow Jat Pratap Singh.
Both godmen were introduced into electoral politics by Baba Ramdev, who exerted his considerable influence within the BJP to field the two godmen from Haryana in two Rajasthan constituencies.
Sumedhanand was re-elected in 2019, while Balaknath defeated the scion of the Alwar royals and former Union minister Jitendra Singh.
In the end, the battle for Tijara was fierce, with over 86 per cent polling, and significant polarisation.
During the contest, while Balaknath was never directly projected as a future chief minister of Rajasthan, the sentiment seemed implied when Yogi Adityanath campaigned for him and called him "a great friend".
Balaknath's election campaign was also heavily influenced by Baba Ramdev, who sent a team of workers from Rewari in Haryana to spread the word that Balaknath would be the second godman to become chief minister of a state after Yogi Adityanath.
Therefore, no matter what Balaknath himself says in public, the fact remains that his team has successfully planted his name in the media.
