Summary On March 18, 2016, a group of men murdered two Muslim cattle herders who were on their way to sell bulls at an animal fair in India's Jharkhand state.
The attackers, all linked to a local "cow protection" group, accused Mohammed Mazlum Ansari, 35, and Imteyaz Khan, 12, of selling the cattle for slaughter, then beat them to death and hanged their bodies from a tree.
Imteyaz's father, Azad Khan, said he watched helplessly as the attack took place: "I hid in the bushes when I saw them beating up Imteyaz and Mazlum.
If I stepped out, they would have killed me too.
Over that same period, around 280 people were injured in over 100 different incidents across 20 states.
The attacks have been led by so-called cow protection groups, many claiming to be affiliated to militant Hindu groups that often have with ties to the BJP.
Many Hindus consider cows to be sacred and these groups have mushroomed all over the country.
This report details 11 vigilante attacks that killed 14 people and the government response.
In most of the cases documented here, families of victims, with the support of lawyers and activists, were able to make some progress toward justice, but many families fear retribution and do not pursue their complaints.
The report also examines the impact of the attacks and the government response on those whose livelihoods are linked to livestock, including farmers, herders, cattle transporters, meat traders, and leather workers.
In almost all of the cases, the police initially stalled investigations, ignored procedures, or even played a complicit role in the killings and cover-up of crimes.
Instead of promptly investigating and arresting suspects, the police filed complaints against victims, their families, and witnesses under laws that ban cow slaughter.
In several cases, political leaders of Hindu nationalist groups, including elected BJP officials, defended the assaults.
In a particularly egregious case of political opportunism, after two people including a police officer were killed in mob violence in December 2018 in Uttar Pradesh state, the chief minister described the incident as an "accident," and then went on to warn, "Illegal slaughtering, and not just cow slaughter, is banned in the entire state." In July 2018, India's Supreme Court issued a series of directives for "preventive, remedial and punitive" measures to address "lynching"-the term used in India for killing by a mob.
The Politics of Cow Protection Cow slaughter is forbidden in most parts of Hindu-majority India.
However, over the last few decades, Hindu nationalists have led a political campaign complaining that the authorities do not do enough to enforce the ban and stop cattle smuggling.
Narendra Modi, when he was chief minister of Gujarat state and during the 2014 national election campaign, repeatedly called for the protection of cows, raising the specter of a "pink revolution" that he claimed had endangered cows and other cattle for meat export.
According to a survey by New Delhi Television, there was a nearly 500 percent increase in the use of communally divisive language in speeches by elected leaders-90 percent of them from the BJP-between 2014 and 2018, as compared to the five years before the BJP came to power.
Cow protection formed an important theme in a number of these speeches.
In addition to beating up cattle traders and transporters that have caused serious injuries, even fatalities, cow protectors have reportedly assaulted Muslim men and women in trains and railway stations in Madhya Pradesh state, stripped and beat Dalit men in Gujarat, force-fed cow dung and urine to two men in Haryana, raided a Muslim hotel in Jaipur, and raped two women and killed two men in Haryana for allegedly eating beef at home.
In September 2015, a mob killed Mohammad Akhlaq, 50, in Uttar Pradesh state, and critically injured his 22-year-old son, over allegations that the family had slaughtered a calf for beef.
Following public outrage-and because the state was then governed by an opposition party-the police made some arrests including of a local BJP leader's son and relatives.
The suspects' Hindu supporters responded by damaging a police van and other vehicles.
Several senior BJP leaders backed the alleged actions of the suspects.
More than three years later, the trial has yet to begin.
All of the accused have been released on bail, raising fears among the victims' families.
Hate Crime Watch, a collaborative database by the Indian organization FactChecker, documented 254 reported incidents of crimes targeting religious minorities between January 2009 and October 2018, in which at least 91 persons were killed and 579 were injured.
About 90 percent of these attacks were reported after BJP came to power in May 2014, and 66 percent occurred in BJP-run states.
These include communal clashes, attacks on inter-faith couples, and violence related to cow protection and religious conversions.
Maja Daruwala, senior advisor to the civil society organization Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative said, "The obvious impunity for the string of crimes that have taken place, and their hugely shameful valorization by some leaders, is distinctly a strong factor in their continuation." Denying Accountability Since 2014, several BJP-ruled states have passed stricter laws to prohibit the killing of cows and adopted cow protection policies that critics contend are populist gestures to promote Hindu nationalism.
Many of the new legal provisions make cow slaughter a cognizable, non-bailable offense, putting the burden of proof on the accused, in violation of the right to be presumed innocent.
Mrinal Satish, executive director of the Centre for Constitutional Law, Policy, and Governance at National Law University in Delhi, said: In some of these laws where there is a shifting of burden and consequently a presumption of guilt, that should be very rarely used because it curtails fundamental liberties.
The impact that it can have is that they can make certain professions such as that of transporters, butchers, leather workers, susceptible to the criminal process and the process itself ends up being the punishment in most cases.
Some state laws provide severe punishments for slaughtering cows, including life imprisonment.
After Gujarat state amended its cow protection laws in 2017 to increase punishments, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, the minister for home affairs, said, "We have equaled the killing of a cow or cow progeny with the killing of a human being." Numerous policies introduced around cow protection by BJP-ruled state governments have enabled vigilante groups.
Members of cow protection committees-sometimes alongside police-patrol streets and highways at night, stop vehicles, check them for cattle, intimidate drivers, and react with violence if they find cows.
Said Sajjad Hassan, convener of Citizens Against Hate, a collective that documents hate crimes in India: "The police have effectively outsourced the identification and apprehension of the alleged violators of these cow protection laws." In 2016, the Haryana government set up a 24-hour helpline for citizens to report cow slaughter and smuggling, and appointed police task forces to respond to the complaints.
In Rajasthan, the previous BJP state government opened six gau raksha (cow protection) police posts tasked with curbing cattle smuggling.
These posts have become a hotbed f
