The old order was gone and they did not know how to meet the challenges of the new and unfriendly one.
Khaliquzzaman had a nervous breakdown and left for Pakistan where, in his declining years, he bitterly regretted the Partition of India.
Far from improving, 70 years after Independence, the situation has gone worse with a Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) regime headed by its pracharak Narendra Modi as Prime Minister.
They face discrimination everywhere.
Their standing in national politics is accurately reflected in the results of all the general elections to the Lok Sabha since 1952.
The figures of Muslims elected to the Lok Sabha over the years are: 1952-25; 1957-23; 1962-26; 1967-28; 1971-28; 1977-32; 1980-49; 1984-45; 1989-33; 1991-29; 1996-27; 1998-38; 1999-32; 2004-35; 2009-28; and 2014-22, which is an all-time low.
Muslims constitute 10.5 per cent of the population.
In the 2014 Lok Sabha, their representation is 4.2 per cent of the total membership, which has varied from 489 in 1952 to 543 in 2014.
In the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled States-Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh-the RSS' political front, the BJP, has not a single Muslim Member of Legislative Assembly.
Official reports tell a sorry tale.
On June 14, 1983, a "High Power Panel on Minorities, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes & Other Weaker Sections" submitted its report in two volumes to the Government of India.
Only one of its seven members was a Muslim, a politician from the Congress, Dr Rafiq Zakaria, who served also as its Secretary.
It is fair to mention that he did his best to ascertain the true state of affairs.
In Chapter 2, on Methodology (page 7), the report reveals: "As we feared, while considerable (though not complete in any way) data was forthcoming in respect of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for whom statutory provisions existed, no such data was available, except in vague and general terms, in respect of the religious minorities.
No Central Government Department or Public Sector Undertaking could enlighten us specifically as to the number of employees belonging to the minorities, nor how much benefits were they deriving from the economic activities.
About the minorities, we were informed that as the authorities concerned were not required by law to maintain any data, they were unable to provide any data to us." That the panel "feared" that statistics in respect of "the religious minorities" (read Muslims) would not be available reflects the clime in which it worked.
Next came the "Report of the National Commission for Religious and Linguistic Minorities" in May 2007.
The commission was headed by a Chief Justice of India, Justice Ranganath Misra, who had performed deplorably in every institution he had served and became a Congress politician.
The data assembled are useful.
The report has a dissent by the Member-Secretary Asha Das, a former senior bureaucrat, which had statements one would expect only in BJP circles.
Its report, submitted on November 17, 2006, contains a wealth of information.
For the first time, the remit focussed on Muslims alone.
Muslim recruitment to the police services is as poor as police behaviour towards them in some parts of India.
The number of Muslim officers in the Army is abysmally low, as the scholar Ali Ahmed establishes with documentation in the brilliant study, "The Missing Muslim Army Officers", Economic & Political Weekly, January 27, 2018).
Why blame men like Asaduddin Owaisi, MP, for their courageous stand?
There must be a two-track approach-enlist the minorities to the secular cause while convincingly securing redress of their grievances.
Off and on one hears a leader here or there criticising the wrongs.
One example of the secular parties' indifference will suffice.
On February 12, 2001, Justice Jagdish Bhalla of the Allahabad High Court criticised the State government for not issuing a notification for the trial of two criminal cases after the demolition of the Babri Masjid in order to facilitate an early trial.
In the last 17 years, not one Chief Minister-Mayawati, Mulayam Singh or Akhilesh Yadav-cared to do that.
This is fraught with peril for all in the long run.
A minority community's sense of identity is shaped by its understanding of its history.
Its self-image is influenced, no less, by the image which the majority group in the country has of the minority community and by its understanding of history.
Not seldom, historical perceptions clash.
History does not speak in the same language to different peoples.
For long, the alternative to Partition seemed to be constitutional protection.
Experience has demonstrated that constitutional protection without political participation, which alone can enable them to share power, provides no security.
To anticipate, both have tended to be protectionist.
Participation has been largely formal; empowerment remains a distant goal.
The only Muslim League leader who began articulating a strategy in the new situation was H.S.
Suhrawardy, former Premier of Bengal.
His letter to Khaliquzzaman on September 10, 1947, listed the options (Khaliquzzaman, pages 397-399; see box).
As he confessed: "We had not thought about it earlier." One option was "holding fast to the two-nation theory".
He rejected it outright.
Another was to retain "group solidarity" and yet seek friendship with Hindus.
He raised an important question which is relevant still.
"What I fear is, will they have respect for you if you have not strength that is to say if you give up your particular group solidarity?
At the same time, any attempt to acquire solidarity or strength will raise suspicion in their minds as regards bona fides.
Shall we treat with them as League treating the Congress or shall we create a political party of Hindus and Muslims?
They may refuse to accept you as the League treating with the Congress and in a system of joint electorate will support the breed known as Nationalist Muslims." Several other options were mentioned, only to be dismissed.
Khaliquzzaman was not interested.
He settled down in Pakistan in October 1947.
Mohamed Raza Khan was a member of the Muslim League's Council since 1943, of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) until 1963 and of the Madras Legislature from 1946 to 1962.
His memoirs, What Price Freedom, published by himself in 1969 from Madras, described the Muslim mood at Partition, the short-sighted policies that the IUML pursued and his own disillusionment.
"Having worked for the creation of Pakistan, they found themselves left without an organisation and leadership, with nobody to guide them.
Mr.
Jinnah left for Karachi to lead the new state.
Most of the top leaders, who were on the League Working Committee and prominent Leaguers in different States, either left for Karachi to build up their own careers, as they felt they had no political future in India, or went into complete retirement.
They could not think in terms of their political rights or their material welfare.
All that they wanted was that there should be no communal trouble in their areas.
Less evident, however, are those of political leadership.
It was full of reproach.
A heavy dose of nostalgia was administered in order to instil courage.
Strangely enough, it finds no place in any of the compilations of his speech.
A report in The Times of India of the following day is quoted here.
The audience numbered more than 60,000 Muslims, including some Leaguers.
The Maulana was heard in pin-drop silence.
Muslim politics was clay in his hands to mould as he wished.
"All communal organisations must be liquidated.
But it entered the political field in the cause of Indian nationalism.
It "will have to cease its political activities now that India has achieved liberation".
