Immediately, the police registered a case against Thakur, who is also the prime suspect in a 2008 terror attack in the city of Malegaon, Maharashtra, which took place in a Muslim cemetery adjacent to a mosque and claimed the lives of six people and injured an additional 100.
She was arrested that year and was granted bail for health reasons in 2017 by the Bombay High Court.
According to Indian law, an individual accused of a crime can participate in elections and take office but cannot if convicted.
She defeated Digvijay Singh, a veteran politician and two-time chief minister of the state.
Thakur is still under investigation for her involvement in the case, which remains a talking point in the media and among critics of the BJP, but she continues to enjoy popular appeal nonetheless.
Like all other BJP candidates, Thakur benefited from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's popularity during the elections, and the allegations did not discourage people from voting for her.
With her pixie-cut hairstyle, her occasional appearances in the Indian Parliament on a wheelchair, which reminds her supporters of the alleged "torture" inflicted on her when she was in prison, and her penchant for playing basketball and cricket - which has surprised many, given her "health issues" - often in all-male groups, Thakur embodies a kind of masculinity seldom associated with women in right-wing politics in India.
"She calls a spade a spade.
She is fearless even though she has had to suffer for her honesty," says Chaitra Kundapura, a young activist from the coastal town of Kundapur in the southern state of Karnataka.
Kundapura was referring to the alleged police torture inflicted on Thakur and the political ostracization she was subjected to for years before she made her way into the political mainstream.
...
Kundapura sees herself as one of the few women who have actively devoted their lives to Hindutva.
...
So, we need more and more young girls to come forward and participate in this national movement," she says.
Kundapura is not an exception.
Across India, an army of militantly oriented, fiercely independent, yet socially conservative women leaders is fast emerging in Hindu nationalist circles.
These women are ambitious, educated and often economically independent.
Products of a post-liberalization India, they have had greater access to education and jobs than their counterparts in previous generations.
Having experienced both social and economic freedoms, they no longer want to play a secondary role to men.
Take, for instance, the Rashtriya Sevika Samiti - the women's wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological fountainhead of dozens of Hindu nationalist organizations across India, including the BJP.
Its own literature states that the Samiti was formed in 1936 in opposition to the Indian left and the liberal women's movements of the 1930s.
The gender studies scholar Paola Bacchetta, who has researched women in the Hindu nationalist movement, states that according to the RSS's own literature, it was "the potential of Hindu femininity to go astray into feminism" that rendered the Samiti necessary, as a way perhaps to rein in any such impulse.
As Hindu nationalism crystallized in the 20th century as an ideology that purportedly sought to preserve Indian traditions in the face of colonialism and Western values and norms, a collective anxiety about the role of women in Hindu society emerged.
While Western values were associated with greater individualism and freedom, Hindu nationalists sought to organize women who would value traditional ideas of womanhood and domesticity over Western feminist ideas.
"The onus was on the woman to be the flag bearer of morality, purity and chastity.
Only then could an ideal family - and by extension an ideal nation - be formed," writes the journalist and author Akshaya Mukul in "Gita Press and the Making of Hindu India." Works put out by the world's largest publisher of Hindu texts, the Gita Press, which has been publishing extensively on the ideal Hindu dharma (religion), culture and nationalism since 1923, suggested that a woman's non-adherence to these set rules could affect broader Hindu society.
A century later, this conservative worldview of the Hindutva organizations, coupled with the burgeoning ambitions of the women themselves, is leading to a strange and sometimes contradictory kind of women's politics.
Often louder and more militant than their male counterparts, these women are setting the Hindu nationalist agenda in their locales, even as they fight off patriarchies to rise up the political ladder.
Between these conflicting impulses of negotiating their rise in a patriarchal organization and a morphed sense of feminism, a new form of women-led Hindu nationalism is emerging in India.
Kundapura hails from a lower-middle-class family and belongs to a community known as the Other Backward Castes, an official term used to describe communities that are socially disadvantaged in India's rigid caste system.
While her father sells milk to make a living, Kundapura had a successful career as a news anchor at a local TV channel in Karnataka.
It was then that Kundapura began thinking about women's freedoms in modern workplaces.
Modernity's promises of individual freedom began to ring hollow to her, which made her think that individuals were as shackled in the modern workplace as they were said to be in traditional social settings.
Slowly, in a manner not too different from tensions observed in other traditions around the world where the younger generation must grapple between the old and the new, traditional ideas of society and womanhood began to seem more appealing to the once-ambitious news anchor.
"In these corporate jobs, women are said to be very independent, but they all earn less than their husbands.
...
What will they teach us about equality?" she says, as if mocking all that is perceived to be modern, feminist and Western.
Popular culture from the West, for instance, portrays women as meek damsels in distress or sex symbols meant for the consumption of men, she explained.
"It is popular culture, especially from the West, that has made us believe that women cannot protect themselves," she says.
On the other hand, Hindu nationalist literature, which Kundapura claims to have read extensively, glorifies Hindu goddesses and women of ancient times as being both virtuous and strong - before they were allegedly "corrupted" by invasions, first by Muslim rulers and then by British colonialism.
This appealed to her more.
"A lot of these women who wear Western clothes and call themselves feminist are often catering to the male gaze, and simply want to look desirable for men," she says.
"My dharma teaches me to have a trishul [trident] and fight for myself," she adds, invoking images of the divine symbol commonly used in Hinduism and of Hindu goddesses like Kali and Durga, who are believed to assume wrathful avatars when confronted with injustice.
As such, she believes that the Hindu dharma, from which modern women have alienated themselves, is more empowering for women than Western modernity.
Hindu dharma can be broadly translated as Hindu religion, but its connotations extend beyond institutionalized religion to being a way of life.
Feminism, in their scheme of things, could destabilize the family unit by instilling individualism in women, making them bad wives and mothers.
But Kundapura's critique goes further.
For her, not only is feminism antithetical to Indian values, but its purported benefits for women are exagger
