The magazine's editors selected nine individuals or groups they felt had the most influence on the world this year.
6.
See the results from our TODAY.com poll: Who should be Time's 2023 Person of the Year?
27 after four months of picket lines.
They secured an agreement for increased minimums, bonuses on residuals tied to viewership for streaming, and rules about artificial intelligence.
The Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists ended its strike on Nov.
10 with an agreement of their own governing the use of artificial intelligence and a creation of a fund to pay actors residuals for future viewings of their work on streaming services.
Xi Jinping China's president and leader of the nation's communist party is on the shortlist for the second straight year and the third time since 2019.
The world's second-largest economy has seen declines in key economic metrics and faced a debt crisis among some of its largest real estate developers.
Xi, 70, also had not spoken with Biden for more than a year, raising fears of rising tensions before the two met last month in San Francisco.
They agreed to revive communication between the U.S.
Taylor Swift The pop superstar was seemingly everywhere this year.
On top of that, Her "Eras Tour" movie has grossed more than $250 million worldwide, making her a billionaire in the process.
She has even done the seemingly impossible - transcending America's political divide.
Sam Altman One of the leading figures in the world of artificial intelligence, Altman reclaimed his position as chief executive of OpenAI last month after a tumultuous few days in which he was initially removed by the company's board.
Altman, 38, is the leader behind the tech startup that created ChatGPT, the chatbot powered by artificial intelligence that has been used for everything from kids' homework to diagnosing medical issues.
On Nov.
17, the board of the nonprofit that oversees OpenAI said it removed Altman as CEO, saying he was not "consistently candid" in his dealings with the board.
The company appointed two interim CEOs before the staff threatened to resign en masse, ultimately resulting in Altman being reinstated as CEO and multiple board members being ousted.
King Charles III It's been a year of transition in the British monarchy, with the official coronation of King Charles III, 75, taking place in May.
His reign has coincided with high inflation and economic woes in Britain, as well as turmoil in the royal family.
Jerome Powell The chair of the Federal Reserve has had investors and consumers paying close attention to his decisions about whether to raise or freeze interest rates as he tries to navigate the U.S.
Higher interest rates have made it more expensive for those looking to buy homes and automobiles, as well as businesses looking to secure loans, but inflation also has been lowered since reaching a peak last year.
Powell is trying to get inflation back down to 2% after it peaked at 9.1% annually in June 2022.
The "Barbie" movie became a worldwide phenomenon, becoming the year's highest-grossing film at more than $1.3 billion and spawning memes and joyous scenes at movie theaters across the country.
Vladimir Putin The president of Russia has presided over a grinding war with Ukraine that began when Russia invaded the neighboring country in February 2022 under Putin's orders.
The U.S.
has shown steadfast financial, logistical and military support for Ukraine since the beginning of a war in which hundreds of thousands have been killed.
Prigozhin and several of his top men were then killed in a plane crash outside Moscow in August, which Putin denied was a revenge assassination for the mutiny.
Trump Prosecutors Former president and presumptive 2024 Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is facing 91 felony counts in Georgia, New York and two federal districts in criminal and civil cases as he mounts a bid for reelection.
Trump faces a civil suit brought by New York Attorney General Letitia James alleging he fraudulently inflated the worth of his assets to secure favorable loans and pay less taxes.
Also in New York, Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg brought felony charges in March against Trump alleging he falsified business records to pay hush money to adult film actor Stormy Daniels after she said she had a sexual relationship with him.
Trump also faces a racketeering case in Fulton County, Georgia, brought by District Attorney Fani Willis in connection with the 2020 election.
Special counsel Jack Smith brought charges alleging Trump took the documents from the White House to his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida after he left office, refused to return them after repeated requests and also lied about them through his attorneys.
Smith also charged Trump with four felonies in a separate case in Washington, D.C., that involved Trump's efforts to stay in power after losing the 2020 election.
