President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, Martin Luther King Jr., German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Pope Francis, and activist Greta Thunberg.
In 2022, TIME's Person of the Year was Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and the "spirit of Ukraine." The 2023 Person of the Year will be announced on Wednesday morning.
Nine candidates, whose names were revealed Monday morning during NBC's Today show, are in the running for TIME's annual selection.
Here are the finalists.
Xi Jinping Chinese President Xi Jinping entered 2023 a few months into his unprecedented third term, solidifying his role as one of China's most powerful modern leaders.
Xi has been on the TIME100 list, which honors the 100 most influential global figures, more than 10 times.
The pop star was previously on the 2017 Person of the Year cover, along with other "Silence Breakers" who spoke out against sexual misconduct.
Sam Altman In the past few weeks alone, Sam Altman has made countless headlines for his departure (and swift return) to his position as CEO of OpenAI, the company that released the groundbreaking ChatGPT, which has defined today's AI landscape.
He was previously on the inaugural TIME100 AI list as well as the 2023 TIME100.
The film made clear the possibility for theatrical success remains even in a streaming world.
Vladimir Putin Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has held the role of President or Prime Minister of Russia since 1999, continued to wage war in Ukraine, now in its second year after the full-scale invasion.
Putin faced a brief threat to his power in 2023 during the Wagner rebellion, but his influence was only reinforced in the end, as the mercenary group retreated when a deal was struck by Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko.
(Yevgeny Prigozhin, the leader of the Wagner group, later died in a plane crash).
Putin was TIME's 2007 Person of the Year and has been on the TIME100 list multiple times, including in 2022.
Jerome Powell Jerome Powell, who has been Chairman of the Federal Reserve since February 2018, has played a key role managing high inflation in the U.S., trying to architect the so-called "soft landing" of reducing inflation by raising interest rates without causing a recession-a goal felt in the wallets of Americans and economies across the world.
He has been on the TIME100 list twice (in 2019 and 2020).
