O Expaganus και οι Μουσουλμάνοι απολογητές 25 Νοεμβρίου, 2008 Posted by expaganus in Ισλάμ, Ορθοδοξία.Tags: Ισλάμ trackback Στην ιστοσελίδα που διατηρώ στο http://www.expaganus.com υπάρχει το άρθρο που θα δείτε παρακάτω (http://www.expaganus.com/mohammad.htm): «ΠΕΡΙ ΜΩΑΜΕΘ...
After the song's premiere on Brown's MechanicalDummy.com website, "Crawl" made its official debut on the R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart at number ninety-nine. After its release for digital download on November 23, 2009, it later peaked at fifty-nine. On the week ending December 12, 2009, "Crawl" debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at sixty-eight and peaked at fifty-three.
e - telescope .
gr / forum / viewtopic .
php ?
Ergazakis was born in Polithea, Heraklion. He studied law in Athens and worked as a lawyer in Heraklion. He was a candidate for Heraklion with the Liberal Party in the 1926 Greek legislative election, getting 1,584 votes, and in the 1946 election with the Independent Liberals, getting 606 votes. He was elected member of parliament for Heraklion with the Democratic Union in 1956.
In a draft registration card completed in April 1942, Sincock stated that he was living in Chicago.  He was living and working at the New Lawrence Hotel at 1020 Lawrence Avenue, several blocks southwest of Soldier Field.
He was born in Krute (Krytha) in Ulcinj Municipality (Ulqin), present-day Montenegro and studied Albanian language and literature at the University of Pristina. He was professor of style, semiotics and contemporary poetry at the Academy of Arts of Kosovo. He published seven anthologies of poetry and five works on literary criticism. Since 2012 he was a member of the Academy of Sciences of Albania. He has been considered a leading poet in the Albanian community in Montenegro.
Rapid Buses are painted primarily a chrome gray to distinguish themselves from the regular bright green buses.
Ο Θεός που θεωρούν οι Χριστιανοί ως αληθινό (ο «δικός μας»...) είναι Πατήρ Υιός και Άγιο Πνεύμα, κοινωνία τριών διακριτών προσώπων με κοινή ουσία, που ονομάζουμε Αγία Τριάδα, και το δεύτερο Πρόσωπό Της ενσαρκώθηκε στον Ιησού που λατρεύεται ως Θεάνθρωπος.
Όμως ο θεός που πρεσβεύουν οι Μουσουλμάνοι έχει ένα πρόσωπο και θυμίζει την εβραϊκή αντίληψη περί Θεού, ενώ η Αγία Τριάδα θεωρείται από τους Μουσουλμάνους πολυθεϊσμός και ειδωλολατρία.
The median age in the village was 37.5 years. 26.1% of residents were under the age of 18; 7.1% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 26.4% were from 25 to 44; 26.8% were from 45 to 64; and 13.3% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the village was 48.5% male and 51.5% female.
Όμως οι Μουσουλμάνοι λένε ότι ο Ιησούς ένας προφήτης και όχι Υιός Θεού.
Austin was born in Dorchester, Massachusetts to William Downes Austin and Catherine D. Austin (daughter of William Austin).
Αυτές τις διαφορές μπορούν να τις διαπιστώσουν και οι μη Χριστιανοί παρατηρητές.
On British Eurosport James Richardson previously hosted the coverage of Serie A football on the Channel from 2002 to 2005 and 2004 UEFA European Football Championship with regular guests including Alan Curbishley, DJ Spoony, former Chelsea FC players Paul Elliott, Ed de Goey, Ray Wilkins, Roberto Di Matteo & former Chelsea goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini now at LA Galaxy, former England International Luther Blissett and European football journalists Gabriele Marcotti and Xavier Rivoire.
Για τους Χριστιανούς ένας Θεός που είπε δια του Ιησού αυτά και μετά δια του Μωάμεθ είπε άλλα, ή είναι παλαβός (οπότε δεν είναι Θεός) ή είναι αναξιόπιστος (οπότε δεν είναι Θεός) ή δεν είναι ο ίδιος...
New orchids are registered with the International Orchid Register, maintained by the Royal Horticultural Society.
» O ίδιος ο Μωάμεθ δεν ανέτρεψε τα στοιχειώδη δείγματα ανθρωπιάς.
Lloyd Law College launched the First Prof.N. R. Madhava Menon SAARCLAW Mooting Competition & Law Students Conference in 2016, under technical support from MILAT-Menon Institute of Legal Advocacy, Trivandrum.
Ο ιερός πόλεμος ανήκει σε αιρετικό λόγο, που υιοθετήθηκε όμως από τους σουλτάνους, γιατί βόλευε τα επεκτατικά τους σχέδια.
This article relating to the subfamily Torodorinae is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Μέχρι την επικράτηση της θρησκείας του Μωάμεθ, οι Άραβες ζούσαν από την κτηνοτροφία και τις ληστρικές επιδρομές, που ονομάζονταν «ράτζια» και θεωρούνταν ευγενές επάγγελμα.
Τα «στοιχειώδη δείγματα ανθρωπιάς» που ανέφερα είναι ότι η ράτζια απαγορευόταν κατά τους «Ιερούς Μήνες» Ρατζάμπ, Διγάανταχ, Διχάτζαχ και Μοχάρραμ, και ότι απαγορευόταν να εμποδίζεται ο εχθρός ν' ανεφοδιαστεί με νερό.
By the middle decades of the 14th century, the Hiberno-Norman presence in Ireland was perceived to be under threat, mostly due to the dissolution of English laws and customs among English settlers. These English settlers were described as "more Irish than the Irish themselves", referring to their taking up Irish law, custom, costume and language. The introduction to the text of the statutes claim,
The 1987 Can-Am Teams season was the twentieth and final running of the Sports Car Club of America's Can Am Series and the eleventh and final running of the revived series. For 1987, the series added March 85Cs from CART, although some continued to use the old prototypes. Bill Tempero was declared champion. The Marches acted as a "single seat Can Am" group, replacing the old Formula 5000 cars.
David Cameron announced in the House of Commons that he would be setting up inquiries to determine how Flowers had come to be appointed chairman of the Co-op Bank.
UGA also has its own University Golf Course that is a par 71 Robert Trent Jones designed golf course that is regarded as one of the best university courses in the United States.
Μετά άρχισε να υποκινεί τους Άραβες εναντίον της δικής του πατριάς, της Κορέις (ή Γορέις) κι άρχισε να ετοιμάζεται για επίθεση στέλνοντας κάποιους νεοφώτιστους στην Αιθιοπία να ζητήσουν βοήθεια.
Pankhu & Adi are childhood friend. Pankhu meets her friend Shweta who asks her about Adi where Pankhu introduces both of them. Pankhu signals Adi to have good time with Shweta but gradually Pankhu going through feelings of jealousy and realize that she has always been in love with him.
The fertile land was once the home of the Yamatji people, who lived a fairly sedentary life and subsisted on fish and water fowl from the river mouth, shell-fish from the coast and game from the hills. They also cultivated ajeca, a yam-like plant on the river flats.
Ellen D. Ketterson is an American evolutionary biologist, behavioral ecologist, neuroendocrinologist and ornithologist best known for her experimental approach to the study of life-history trade-offs in a songbird, the Dark-eyed Junco. She is currently a Distinguished Professor of Biology, Director of the Environmental Resilience Institute, and affiliate professor in Congnitive Science, Gender Studies, Integrative Study of Animal Behavior, and Neuroscience at Indiana University.
Cornelia Wyngaarden (1942) is a Canadian media artist based in Vancouver, British Columbia. She creates works in video, sculpture, and installation, and has played a significant role in the development and institutionalization of new media in Vancouver.
Μετά όμως άρχισε να λέει ότι η ράτζια απαγορεύεται μόνο μεταξύ των Μουσουλμάνων, ενώ ΕΠΙΒΑΛΛΕΤΑΙ να την κάνουν οι πιστοί στους άπιστους, με την προϋπόθεση ότι δεν θα γίνει κατά τους απαγορευμένους για πόλεμο μήνες, και ότι το 1/5 της λείας θα παραδίδεται στη μουσουλμανική κοινότητα.
Όμως το 624, στην αρχή του μήνα Ρατζάμπ, έδωσε εντολή σε 12μελή ομάδα να επιτεθεί σε μικρό καραβάνι.
Furosemide and other loop diuretics inhibit the activity of NKCC2, thereby impairing sodium reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle. The action of these loop diuretics also reduces potassium reabsorption through the NKCC2 cotransporter and consequently increases tubular flow rate which enhances potassium secretion and emphasises the hypokalaemic effect.
Έτσι ο Μωάμεθ βγήκε κι από πάνω, ενώ είχε παραβιάσει αυτά που έλεγε ως τότε...
και το στοιχειώδες δείγμα ανθρωπιάς που για αιώνες σέβονταν οι Άραβες.
The rail network in South East Queensland was heavily impacted by the storms, with inner city Brisbane lines particularly affected. The Bruce Highway, Bruxner Highway, Carnarvon Highway and Pacific Highway were all closed for some time.  The Gwydir Highway was cut because of a landslide west of Grafton.
Άφησε μόνο μια γεώτρηση, γύρω από την οποία δόθηκε η τελική μάχη.
Among his contributions to the study of Dante Alighieri, Ziolkowski edited Dante and the Greeks, published by Dumbarton Oaks Publications in 2014, and Dante and Islam, published by Fordham University Press in 2015. Both books set the Italian poet in broader contexts, along the way helping to connect Dante studies with medieval, Byzantine, and Islamic studies.[citation needed]
Μετά ο «προφήτης» σκότωσε με τα χεράκια του δύο ποιητές, που είχαν εκφράσει στα ποιήματά τους δυσαρέσκεια για τον Ισλαμισμό, και τα σώματά τους ρίχτηκαν στο πηγάδι μαζί με σώματα μελών της πατριάς του, που κατ' άλλους ήταν 15 και κατ' άλλους 70.
Ακολούθως ο Μωάμεθ και οι Μουσουλμάνοι τσακώθηκαν για τα λάφυρα και τότε «κατέβηκε» το εξής εδάφιο: «Σε ρωτάνε τι θα γίνει με τα λάφυρα πολέμου; Πες τους ότι αυτά αφορούν τον Αλλάχ και τον Προφήτη του κι αφήστε τις διαφωνίες αν είστε πραγματικά πιστοί».
Στη συνέχεια ο ίδιος ο Μωάμεθ παραβίασε κι άλλα που έλεγε το Κοράνι και πρόσθεσε νέες «αποκαλύψεις», όταν αρχικά είπε ότι οι Μουσουλμάνοι δεν πρέπει να προσεύχονται προς την Ιερουσαλήμ αλλά προς την Μέκκα.
The Burger King Basketball Classic, formerly known as the McDonald's Classic from 1983 to 2010, is a four-team boys high school basketball invitational tournament held each year since 1983 in Erie, Pennsylvania.
The department was formed by way of an Administrative Arrangements Order issued on 18 September 2013 and replaced the majority of the functions previously performed by the former Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs (FaHCSIA); with the exception of Office of Indigenous Policy Coordination, that was transferred to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Στη συνέχεια τα πρότερα εδάφια «ο Εβραίος να μείνει πιστός στην θρησκεία του κι ο Μουσουλμάνος στη δική του» και «οι Εβραίοι και οι Χριστιανοί που πιστεύουν στον Αλλάχ και στην Δευτέρα Παρουσία δεν αποτελούν κίνδυνο» ήρθαν να τα συμπληρώσουν άλλα νέα: «Οι Άραβες υπερέχουν από το λαό του Αβραάμ», «ο Αβραάμ ούτε Εβραίος ήταν, ούτε Χριστιανός, αλλά ένας καθαρής πίστης Μουσουλμάνος», «όπου δείτε τους άπιστους σκοτώστε τους στο δρόμο του Αλλάχ».
Ο Μωάμεθ έδωσε πια εντολή στους οπαδούς του να σκοτώνουν τους Εβραίους όπου κι αν τους βρουν.
Νομίζω δεν χρειάζεται να παραθέσω άλλα για να γίνει φανερό ότι ο Μωάμεθ δεν κήρυξε καμμία αγάπη και ο λόγος που χρησιμοποιείται για τζιχάντ μέχρι σήμερα δεν είναι ο αιρετικός, αλλά ο αυθεντικός, ο λόγος του ιδρυτή.
«Aκόμη κι ο χριστιανισμός χρησιμοποιήθηκε από κάποιους επιτήδειους με ιδιοτελείς σκοπούς».
Stooshe released an official lyric video for the track on October 3, before unveiling the official music video on T4 on October 7. The video, directed by Matt Stawski, features cameo appearances from fellow TLC members T-Boz and Chilli. Hornbuckle commented "The video is perhaps the most colourful promo from a girl group for years, and we love the choreography the girls pull out on the chorus. Stooshe make being cool, classy and fun all at once look effortless."
Ενώ εδώ το πρόβλημα εντοπίζεται στην πρωτογενή πηγή και διδαχή της θρησκείας.
The Veech surface and the related Veech group are named after Veech, as is the Veech dichotomy according to which geodesic flow on the Veech surface is either periodic or ergodic.
Nidhamu is a recording by the jazz musician Sun Ra and his Astro-Intergalactic-Infinity Arkestra, documenting their first visit to Egypt.
No man is true in the truest sense of the word but he who is true in word, in deed and in thought.
Every good act is charity....Your smiling in your brother's face, is charity; and your exhorting mankind to virtuous deeds, is charity; and your prohibiting the forbidden, is charity; and your showing men the road, in the land in which they lose it, is charity; and your assisting the blind, is charity.» Ασφαλώς υπάρχουν στο κοράνι τέτοια εδάφια, τα οποία είναι αντιγραφή από την εβραϊκή και χριστιανική γραφή και αναιρούνται από άλλα!
Loring AFB was set to close as a result of the 1991 Base Realignment and Closure Commission, officially closing on 30 September 1994. Immediately, Limestone was decimated. The population of Limestone dropped 76%, from 10,000 to 2,000, in the six years following the base's closure. Regional economic activity was severely lowered, as 19% of the local economy was related to Loring Air Force Base.
From 2000 all-in-one multi-purpose devices became available which were suitable for both small offices and consumers, with printing, scanning, copying, and fax capability in a single apparatus which can be made available to all members of a workgroup.
Tor Bay, one of the sandy beaches near Oxwich Bay on the Gower Peninsula in south Wales, is so-called because the beach is framed by a huge outcrop of Carboniferous Limestone.
Δεν διαφωνώ να έχουν οι Μουσουλμάνοι τζαμιά όπου να λατρεύουν τον Αλλάχ, και δεν επιθυμώ ούτε να τα κατεδαφίσω τα τζαμιά αυτά, ούτε να τα κάψω.
Datacom lost the contract to Talent 2, the creators of Novopay, in a competitive tender in 2005. Talent2 won the contract ahead of ten other tenderers. The Novopay contract was initially signed off by the Labour Government in 2008. It was subsequently renegotiated by National twice.
Από την άλλη είμαι απόλυτα σίγουρη ότι αν έβγαινε σήμερα ένας τέτοιος θρησκευτικός ηγέτης σαν τον Μωάμεθ, η κίνησή του θα χαρακτηριζόταν σέχτα επικίνδυνη για την ανθρωπότητα που εξαπλώνεται μέσω όχι απλά πνευματικής τρομοκρατίας, αλλά φυσικής βίας, και δημιουργήθηκε με ιδιοτελείς σκοπούς.
Αυτή είναι και η δική μου γνώμη για την εν λόγω θρησκεία.
David William Donald Mackay AFC (born 1957) is the Chief Pilot of Virgin Galactic, a commercial astronaut and a former RAF test pilot. He is the first native-born Scot to visit space.
