But given the turbulent state of politics, there is little reason to be sanguine about the country's political and economic future.
It also resulted in a largely buoyant week at the stock market.
But political turmoil continues to cast a shadow over the economy.
The nexus between economic recovery and political uncertainty is not to be underestimated.
But he has been straightforward about the austerity measures the government has had to take to prevent a meltdown of a precarious economy.
The confrontation between the coalition government and opposition leader Imran Khan has assumed an ominous shape after PTI secured control of Punjab.
The centre and the provincial government are now locked in a stand-off and tit-for-tat actions that are creating more political disarray.
The tussle between the two over the custody of Shahbaz Gill is a case in point.
As are the arrest orders issued by the Punjab government and police raids on the homes of PML-N leaders, who then fled the province.
Discord continues over the transfer of civil servants.
The centre-province wrangle and the politics of settling scores has plunged the country into a vortex of turmoil and uncertainty.
More seems to be in the offing.
Encouraged by the large crowds he has drawn, and his support base remaining unaffected by allegations of malfeasance by his opponents, Khan is in no mood to dial down political tensions.
Neither is the Sharif government.
There is a close nexus between economic recovery and political certainty.
But never before has it confronted a financial crisis in such an adverse external environment, in which the aftershocks of the Covid pandemic and the fallout of the Ukraine conflict have left supply chains and global commodity and financial markets in such a volatile state.
Energy and food prices have soared and fuelled worldwide inflation, exacerbating Pakistan's economic difficulties.
The exchange rate in particular is a barometer of such uncertainty as it is determined both by economic fundamentals and sentiment.
This leads to weakening of the rupee, as the experience of recent months testifies.
Moreover, the most important indicator of the country's growth path - and of sustained recovery - is the level of private investment.
The federal government provides tax stability, the central bank external stability, while provinces have to foster a secure and conducive climate for investment to take place.
But when politics is so divided and the centre and provinces at loggerheads, this acts as a disincentive for the private sector, which then prefers to sit it out.
The irony is that all major political parties actually agree on the fundamental elements of economic policy - export-driven growth, curbing the fiscal deficit, instituting an equitable and simplified tax system, ensuring tax compliance, creating a business-friendly environment, adhering to a market-determined exchange rate, privatising bankrupt state-owned enterprises, bringing down inflation, reducing the debt level and restraining government expenditure.
Despite this convergence, their efforts to seek political mileage drives them in the opposite direction, which puts the accent on their divergences at the cost of the country's economic stability.
The writer is a former ambassador to the US, UK & UN.
Published in Dawn, August 22nd, 2022
