The attackers, all linked to a local "cow protection" group, accused Mohammed Mazlum Ansari, 35, and Imteyaz Khan, 12, of selling the cattle for slaughter, then beat them to death and hanged their bodies from a tree.
If I stepped out, they would have killed me too.
Over that same period, around 280 people were injured in over 100 different incidents across 20 states.
Many Hindus consider cows to be sacred and these groups have mushroomed all over the country.
This report details 11 vigilante attacks that killed 14 people and the government response.
In most of the cases documented here, families of victims, with the support of lawyers and activists, were able to make some progress toward justice, but many families fear retribution and do not pursue their complaints.
The report also examines the impact of the attacks and the government response on those whose livelihoods are linked to livestock, including farmers, herders, cattle transporters, meat traders, and leather workers.
In almost all of the cases, the police initially stalled investigations, ignored procedures, or even played a complicit role in the killings and cover-up of crimes.
Instead of promptly investigating and arresting suspects, the police filed complaints against victims, their families, and witnesses under laws that ban cow slaughter.
In a particularly egregious case of political opportunism, after two people including a police officer were killed in mob violence in December 2018 in Uttar Pradesh state, the chief minister described the incident as an "accident," and then went on to warn, "Illegal slaughtering, and not just cow slaughter, is banned in the entire state." In July 2018, India's Supreme Court issued a series of directives for "preventive, remedial and punitive" measures to address "lynching"-the term used in India for killing by a mob.
Cow protection formed an important theme in a number of these speeches.
Following public outrage-and because the state was then governed by an opposition party-the police made some arrests including of a local BJP leader's son and relatives.
The suspects' Hindu supporters responded by damaging a police van and other vehicles.
Several senior BJP leaders backed the alleged actions of the suspects.
More than three years later, the trial has yet to begin.
All of the accused have been released on bail, raising fears among the victims' families.
About 90 percent of these attacks were reported after BJP came to power in May 2014, and 66 percent occurred in BJP-run states.
Many of the new legal provisions make cow slaughter a cognizable, non-bailable offense, putting the burden of proof on the accused, in violation of the right to be presumed innocent.
Mrinal Satish, executive director of the Centre for Constitutional Law, Policy, and Governance at National Law University in Delhi, said: In some of these laws where there is a shifting of burden and consequently a presumption of guilt, that should be very rarely used because it curtails fundamental liberties.
The impact that it can have is that they can make certain professions such as that of transporters, butchers, leather workers, susceptible to the criminal process and the process itself ends up being the punishment in most cases.
Some state laws provide severe punishments for slaughtering cows, including life imprisonment.
After Gujarat state amended its cow protection laws in 2017 to increase punishments, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, the minister for home affairs, said, "We have equaled the killing of a cow or cow progeny with the killing of a human being." Numerous policies introduced around cow protection by BJP-ruled state governments have enabled vigilante groups.
Members of cow protection committees-sometimes alongside police-patrol streets and highways at night, stop vehicles, check them for cattle, intimidate drivers, and react with violence if they find cows.
In Rajasthan, the previous BJP state government opened six gau raksha (cow protection) police posts tasked with curbing cattle smuggling.
These posts have become a hotbed f
