The old order was gone and they did not know how to meet the challenges of the new and unfriendly one.
Khaliquzzaman had a nervous breakdown and left for Pakistan where, in his declining years, he bitterly regretted the Partition of India.
Far from improving, 70 years after Independence, the situation has gone worse with a Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) regime headed by its pracharak Narendra Modi as Prime Minister.
Their standing in national politics is accurately reflected in the results of all the general elections to the Lok Sabha since 1952.
In the 2014 Lok Sabha, their representation is 4.2 per cent of the total membership, which has varied from 489 in 1952 to 543 in 2014.
Official reports tell a sorry tale.
On June 14, 1983, a "High Power Panel on Minorities, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes & Other Weaker Sections" submitted its report in two volumes to the Government of India.
It is fair to mention that he did his best to ascertain the true state of affairs.
In Chapter 2, on Methodology (page 7), the report reveals: "As we feared, while considerable (though not complete in any way) data was forthcoming in respect of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for whom statutory provisions existed, no such data was available, except in vague and general terms, in respect of the religious minorities.
No Central Government Department or Public Sector Undertaking could enlighten us specifically as to the number of employees belonging to the minorities, nor how much benefits were they deriving from the economic activities.
The commission was headed by a Chief Justice of India, Justice Ranganath Misra, who had performed deplorably in every institution he had served and became a Congress politician.
The data assembled are useful.
Its report, submitted on November 17, 2006, contains a wealth of information.
One example of the secular parties' indifference will suffice.
This is fraught with peril for all in the long run.
A minority community's sense of identity is shaped by its understanding of its history.
Its self-image is influenced, no less, by the image which the majority group in the country has of the minority community and by its understanding of history.
Not seldom, historical perceptions clash.
History does not speak in the same language to different peoples.
For long, the alternative to Partition seemed to be constitutional protection.
Experience has demonstrated that constitutional protection without political participation, which alone can enable them to share power, provides no security.
To anticipate, both have tended to be protectionist.
Participation has been largely formal; empowerment remains a distant goal.
His letter to Khaliquzzaman on September 10, 1947, listed the options (Khaliquzzaman, pages 397-399; see box).
As he confessed: "We had not thought about it earlier." One option was "holding fast to the two-nation theory".
He rejected it outright.
He raised an important question which is relevant still.
"What I fear is, will they have respect for you if you have not strength that is to say if you give up your particular group solidarity?
Khaliquzzaman was not interested.
He settled down in Pakistan in October 1947.
"Having worked for the creation of Pakistan, they found themselves left without an organisation and leadership, with nobody to guide them.
Mr.
Jinnah left for Karachi to lead the new state.
Most of the top leaders, who were on the League Working Committee and prominent Leaguers in different States, either left for Karachi to build up their own careers, as they felt they had no political future in India, or went into complete retirement.
They could not think in terms of their political rights or their material welfare.
Less evident, however, are those of political leadership.
It was full of reproach.
A heavy dose of nostalgia was administered in order to instil courage.
Strangely enough, it finds no place in any of the compilations of his speech.
A report in The Times of India of the following day is quoted here.
The Maulana was heard in pin-drop silence.
Muslim politics was clay in his hands to mould as he wished.
"All communal organisations must be liquidated.
But it entered the political field in the cause of Indian nationalism.
It "will have to cease its political activities now that India has achieved liberation".
