She was arrested that year and was granted bail for health reasons in 2017 by the Bombay High Court.
According to Indian law, an individual accused of a crime can participate in elections and take office but cannot if convicted.
She defeated Digvijay Singh, a veteran politician and two-time chief minister of the state.
Thakur is still under investigation for her involvement in the case, which remains a talking point in the media and among critics of the BJP, but she continues to enjoy popular appeal nonetheless.
Like all other BJP candidates, Thakur benefited from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's popularity during the elections, and the allegations did not discourage people from voting for her.
With her pixie-cut hairstyle, her occasional appearances in the Indian Parliament on a wheelchair, which reminds her supporters of the alleged "torture" inflicted on her when she was in prison, and her penchant for playing basketball and cricket - which has surprised many, given her "health issues" - often in all-male groups, Thakur embodies a kind of masculinity seldom associated with women in right-wing politics in India.
"She calls a spade a spade.
...
...
So, we need more and more young girls to come forward and participate in this national movement," she says.
Kundapura is not an exception.
These women are ambitious, educated and often economically independent.
Products of a post-liberalization India, they have had greater access to education and jobs than their counterparts in previous generations.
Having experienced both social and economic freedoms, they no longer want to play a secondary role to men.
Its own literature states that the Samiti was formed in 1936 in opposition to the Indian left and the liberal women's movements of the 1930s.
While Western values were associated with greater individualism and freedom, Hindu nationalists sought to organize women who would value traditional ideas of womanhood and domesticity over Western feminist ideas.
"The onus was on the woman to be the flag bearer of morality, purity and chastity.
A century later, this conservative worldview of the Hindutva organizations, coupled with the burgeoning ambitions of the women themselves, is leading to a strange and sometimes contradictory kind of women's politics.
Kundapura hails from a lower-middle-class family and belongs to a community known as the Other Backward Castes, an official term used to describe communities that are socially disadvantaged in India's rigid caste system.
While her father sells milk to make a living, Kundapura had a successful career as a news anchor at a local TV channel in Karnataka.
It was then that Kundapura began thinking about women's freedoms in modern workplaces.
Modernity's promises of individual freedom began to ring hollow to her, which made her think that individuals were as shackled in the modern workplace as they were said to be in traditional social settings.
Slowly, in a manner not too different from tensions observed in other traditions around the world where the younger generation must grapple between the old and the new, traditional ideas of society and womanhood began to seem more appealing to the once-ambitious news anchor.
"In these corporate jobs, women are said to be very independent, but they all earn less than their husbands.
...
Popular culture from the West, for instance, portrays women as meek damsels in distress or sex symbols meant for the consumption of men, she explained.
"It is popular culture, especially from the West, that has made us believe that women cannot protect themselves," she says.
This appealed to her more.
"A lot of these women who wear Western clothes and call themselves feminist are often catering to the male gaze, and simply want to look desirable for men," she says.
Feminism, in their scheme of things, could destabilize the family unit by instilling individualism in women, making them bad wives and mothers.
