The impact of Bob Iger's restructuring of The Walt Disney Co.
is apparent in the company's latest quarterly earnings report.
The Disney CEO says that the company is now set to exceed its initial goal of $5.5 billion in cost savings.
"While there is still more to do, I'm incredibly confident in Disney's long-term trajectory because of the work we've done, the team we now have in place, and because of Disney's core foundation of creative excellence and popular brands and franchises." Related Stories As Iger noted, losses in the company's direct-to-consumer business continued to improve, hitting $512 million, compared to $1.1 billion a year ago, and $659 million last quarter.
During the company's quarterly earnings call, Iger said that he expects three areas to be growth drivers for Disney moving forward: It's film studios, theme parks, and streaming, "all of which are inextricably linked to our brands and franchises." Among Disney's divisions, its linear TV business continues to be profitable but on the decline, with revenues falling 7 percent to $6.7 billion and operating income slipping by 23 percent to $1.9 billion.
Lower viewership and advertising revenue at ABC were a problem, as were higher sports costs at ESPN, offset by higher ad-revenue at the cable sports powerhouse.
ESPN this week announced a deal to partner with Penn Entertainment on an ESPN-branded sports book called ESPN Bet.
The deal, which includes $1.5 billion in cash and $500 million in stock warrants, will kick in later this year.
Because Penn stepped up in a very aggressive way and made an offer to us that was better than any of the competitive offers by far," Iger said.
"We received notable interest from many different entities and we look forward to sharing more details at a later date," Iger said of potential strategic partner interest in ESPN.
The company says that lower costs at Disney+ and ESPN+, combined with higher operating income at Hulu, helped the division.
Iger also announced on the earnings call that the company would be hiking prices for its ad-free tiers of Disney+ and Hulu, while launching a new duo bundle of the services.
Disney will also begin to more aggressively crack down on password sharing.
At the film studio, Iger said that "we're focused on improving the quality of our films, and on better economics, not just reducing the number of titles we release, but also the cost per title." "And we're maximizing the full impact of our titles by embracing the multiple distribution windows at our disposal, enabling consumers to access their content in multiple ways," he added.
However Iger also opted to try and be diplomatic when discussing the matter, telling analysts that "it is my fervent hope that we quickly find solutions to the issues that have kept us apart these past few months.
And I am personally committed to working to achieve this result." Disney's parks and experiences division continues to be a bright spot for the company, with revenues rising 13 percent to $8.3 billion, and operating income improving 11 percent to $2.4 billion.
