And Disney+ Hotstar has already suffered from the huge loss of losing access to the Indian Cricket Premier League, which saw over 4 million subscribers quit the platform earlier this year.
Disney has been making its shift from focusing on growing subscribers, to making a profit.
Currently, it has almost 4000 titles, compared to around 2500 titles in countries like Canada and the UK, which also have access to the general entertainment Star hub.
In the US, Disney+ really lacks behind in terms of content numbers, with under 2000 titles currently available, due to the majority of Disney's general entertainment content being held on Hulu.
Recently, Bob Iger spoke at the Morgan Stanley Investors Conference and spoke about how they need to go after loyal subscribers: It's also obvious to us we can't get the profitability and turn this into a growth business without growing subs.
So, while we're taking off-the-table sub guidance, we're still going to look to grow subs.
In addition, we're going to lean more into our franchises, our core franchises, and our brands.
We have to be better at curating the Disney and the Pixar and the Marvel and the Star Wars of it all as well.
And of course, reduce costs on everything that we make because, while we're extremely proud of what's on the screen, it's gotten to a point where it's extraordinarily expensive.
And we want all the quality.
Disney+ Hotstar is going to go through a shift in the coming year, as it will no doubt have its budgets cut and become more in line with how Disney+ operates in other countries around the world.
A hub of content from Disney's studios such as FX, National Geographic, Marvel and Star Wars, but also with local content.
But the days of it being a massive streaming platform to rival a linear bundle, are going.
Subscribers in India will no doubt still be important to Disney, but the days of Disney chasing cheap subscribers isn't as important to them as it once was.
Bob Iger has also said they are going to be scaling back how much general entertainment and local content they make around the world, so this will no doubt also filter down to Disney+ Hotstar subscribers.
Disney has to walk a thin line, keeping current subscribers happy, but also balancing the books and making Disney+ Hotstar more profitable.
All of these differences in the type of content being offered to subscribers, are one major reason why Disney+ Hotstar in India has its own separate app.
It's very different to Disney+ around the world.
Hotstar still exists in some countries like Canada and the UK, but in a scaled-back format.
For fans of Disney's own content, with films and shows from 20th Century Studios, Marvel, Star Wars, Pixar and Disney, there's going to be plenty of content to enjoy, but sports and licensed content, no longer seem to be a focus.
Let us know on social media!
