"Today there were four attacks against three separate commercial vessels operating in international waters in the southern Red Sea," the statement from the US Central Command reads.
"We have every reason to believe that these attacks, while launched by the Houthis in Yemen, are fully enabled by Iran." The Carney, a US destroyer, responded to distress calls and provided assistance following missile and drone launches from Houthi-controlled territory, according to US Central Command.
A spokesperson for the group's military said the two ships were targeted after they rejected warnings, without elaborating.
The US military said the Carney shot down two drones as it helped the commercial vessels.
Israeli military spokesperson R Adm Daniel Hagari said the ships had "no connection to the state of Israel".
Hagari said: "One ship was significantly damaged and it is in distress and apparently is in danger of sinking and another ship was lightly damaged." US Central Command said Unity Explorer is Bahamas-flagged and UK-owned, that Number 9 is Panamanian-flagged, Bermuda- and UK-owned and operated, and Sophie II is Panamanian-flagged.
Yemen's Houthis, who have the backing of Iran, have launched several missile and drone attacks on Israel since the start of the war in Gaza on 7 October.
They are not thought to have inflicted any serious damage.
A statement by the Islamic Resistance in Iraq, an umbrella group representing several Iraqi armed factions with close ties to Tehran, said five of its members had been killed, and vowed retaliation against US forces.
Iraqi armed groups have claimed more than 70 such attacks against US forces since 17 October over Washington's backing of Israel in its bombardment of Gaza.
The group claimed it was owned by Israel but there was no immediate evidence to support this.
In the incident, two ballistic missiles were fired from Houthi-controlled areas in Yemen toward the general location of the two ships, but landed 10 nautical miles away in the Gulf of Aden, the US military said.
One company, Ambrey, said another container ship had reportedly suffered damage from a drone attack about 63 miles north-west of the northern Yemeni port of Hodeidah.
Earlier, Britain's Maritime Trade Operations agency said it had received reports of a drone attack in the Red Sea's Bab el-Mandab strait, between Yemen, Djibouti and Eritrea.
At the time, the US said the missiles were "potentially heading towards Israel" as justification for its action.
Reuters contributed to this report
