Three commercial ships in the Red Sea were struck by ballistic missiles fired from Houthi-controlled Yemen on Sunday and a U.S.
warship shot down three drones in self-defense during the hourslong assault, the U.S.
In a statement, U.S.
The guided missile destroyer USS Carney (Photo by FELIX GARZA/US NAVY/AFP via Getty Images) According to Central Command, the USS Carney, a Navy destroyer, detected a ballistic missile fired from Houthi-controlled areas of Yemen at the Bahamas-flagged bulk carrier Unity Explorer.
The drone was also launched from Yemen.
Two other commercial ships, the Panamanian-flagged bulk carriers Number 9 and Sophie II, were both struck by missiles.
While sailing to assist the Sophie II, the Carney shot down another drone heading in its direction.
It hasn't been damaged in any of the incidents and no injuries have been reported on board.
Houthi military spokesman Brig.
Yahya Saree claimed Sunday's attacks, saying the first vessel was hit by a missile and the second by a drone while in the Bab el-Mandeb Strait, which links the Red Sea to the Gulf of Aden.
Saree did not mention any U.S.
warship being involved in the attack.
"The Yemeni armed forces continue to prevent Israeli ships from navigating the Red Sea (and Gulf of Aden) until the Israeli aggression against our steadfast brothers in the Gaza Strip stops," Saree said.
Managers for the two vessels could not be immediately reached for comment.
Israeli media identified Ungar as being the son of Israeli shipping billionaire Abraham "Rami" Ungar.
The Houthis have launched a series of attacks on vessels in the Red Sea, as well as launching drones and missiles targeting Israel.
has stopped short of saying its Navy ships were targeted, but has said Houthi drones have headed toward the ships and have been shot down in self defense.
02 Maxar medium view satellite imagery off the southern Red Sea near Hodeida, Yemen that shows the recently seized Galaxy Leader ship that was captured by Houthi fighters on November 19th.
However, the collapse of the truce and the resumption of punishing Israeli airstrikes and its ground offensive there had raised the risk of the seaborne attacks resuming.
In November, the Houthis seized a vehicle transport ship also linked to Israel in the Red Sea off Yemen.
The rebels still hold the vessel near the port city of Hodeida.
launched Tomahawk cruise missiles that destroyed three coastal radar sites in Houthi-controlled territory to retaliate for missiles being fired at U.S.
Navy ships at the time.
