In 2018, the Congress won the state in a majority bringing the Vasundhara Raje government to an end.
Ashok Gehlot conceded defeat and admitted that the results were shocking, unexpected.
Sachin Pilot wins by a margin of 29,475, garnering a total of 1,05,812 votes.
The Congress won 69 seats.
He was defeated by Congress candidate Narendra Budania by a margin of 10,345 votes.
Rajasthan Assembly Speaker and senior Congress leader CP Joshi suffered defeat at the hands of BJP candidate Vishwaraj Singh Mewar by a margin of 7,504 votes in Nathdwara.
On BJP's Rajasthan election win, PM Modi's broke this rule reaction Congress turncoats lose seats in Bari, Nagaur Congress turncoats lost their seats in Bari and Nagaur in the Rajasthan assembly elections on Sunday, the Election Commission's poll data showed.
Girraj Singh Malinga, sitting MLA from Bari who switched over to BJP from the Congress, lost the seat to Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Jaswant Singh Gurjar by a margin of 27,424 votes.
Addressing jubilant party workers at the BJP headquarters in the national capital, he said, "Today's victory in assembly elections is historic and unprecedented.
It is the victory of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' and self-reliant India".
Deep dive Rajasthan assembly election: Only 9 of 25 Gehlot's ministers win Only nine out of 25 contesting ministers, including the chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the outgoing cabinet, managed to win while only three out of seven contesting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs lost the battle in the state assembly election held on November 25, with results declared on Sunday.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Gehlot reaches Governor's house, resigns Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Ashok Gehlot has reached the Governor's house to submit his resignation from the CM post.
The BJP won 22 of 34 SC seats, Congress 11 and one by independent.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Jairam Ramesh's 'judega Bharat' message Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: "Exactly 20 years ago, the Indian National Congress had lost the state elections in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, while winning only Delhi.
But within a few months, the party bounced back and went on to emerge as the single largest party in the Lok Sabha polls and formed the government at the Centre.
It is with hope, confidence and a firm sense of resolve and resilience that the Indian National Congress prepares for the forthcoming Lok Sabha polls.
Judega Bharat, Jeetega INDIA!" Jairam Ramesh wrote on X.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Results are shocking, says Ashok Gehlot Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Ashok Gehlot said he accepts the result with humility.
I thank the people of these states for their unwavering support and assure them that we will keep working tirelessly for their well-being.
A special thanks to the hardworking Party Karyakartas.
Each of them is exemplary!
They have worked tirelessly and highlighted our development agenda among the people," PM Modi tweeted.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Gehlot concedes defeat Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Sachin Pilot thanks Tonk for blessings.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Sachin Pilot thanks Tonk after winning Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Disappointing, says Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: "...I also thank all those who voted for us in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.
Our performance in these three states have no doubt been disappointing, but with determination, we reaffirm our strong resolve to rebuild and revive ourselves in these three states," Mallikarjun Kharge tweeted.
Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Gehlot likely to meet Governor at 5.30pm and resign Rajasthan Election Results 2023 LIVE: Ashok Gehlot is likely to meet Governor Kalraj Mishra and resign from the CM post conceding defeat.
It is the victory of the guarantee given by the PM.
It is also the victory of the strategy given by Amit Shah and the able leadership provided by Nadda ji.
Most importantly, it's a victory for our party workers," Vasundhara Raje said.
