Separately, investors voted to change how board members are elected.
They are unhappy with the firm's slumping sales.
That has made this shareholder meeting - the first since British-born chief executive Steve Easterbrook took over the firm in January - a crucial focus of both worker angst and investor frustration.
Supersize wages On a chilly morning outside the company's headquarters in Oak Brook, Illinois, hundreds of protestors chanted slogans such as "supersize my wages" as shareholders arrived at the meeting.
They said they were energised by the Los Angeles' city council's announcement on Tuesday that it had voted to increase the minimum wage in the city to $15 per hour by 2020.
Since 2012, the group - known as the Fast for 15 coalition - has been putting pressure on corporations to increase wages from the current US federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour to a "living wage" of $15.
Many experts have said that the group has been successful in exerting pressure on firms such as Walmart, Target, and others to raise wages.
"Part of the [wage increases] are due to the fact that as the economy has improved, [corporations] need to do something to hold on to workers - Walmart was having trouble keeping goods stocked in their stores," Professor Ken Jacobs, head of the University of California-Berkeley's Labor Center, told the BBC.
"I'm tired of struggling all the time," he told the BBC during a break from the protests at his small and slightly run-down one bedroom apartment in the Kimball neighbourhood.
The area is close to Hyde Park, near where US President Barack Obama lives.
He says he is frustrated that his wages have barely budged from the $5.50 per hour he started making when he first joined the company, to the $8.40 he makes now.
"I just want to be able to save - and maybe buy some new clothes," he said.
This "is the latest instance in an $80m publicity campaign organized and paid for by the Service Employees International Union and its members," said the company in a statement.
The investors include the California Public Employees' Retirement System (Calpers) and the New York City Pension Funds - who control a combined $860bn in assets.
The heads of pension funds in New York City, Chicago, and California wrote in a letter that the move was an effort to challenge the company's decision to buy back shares to please investors, at the expense of long-term growth.
But despite a recently announced and much needed turnaround plan, the company continues to direct capital towards an aggressive share buyback programme," they wrote in a letter, external.
They said that these buybacks should instead be directed at increasing worker wages, in addition to being reinvested in the company.
Despite the opposition, 61% of voting shareholders approved the proxy access bylaw.
