Yet, he has proven to be a poor guardian of democracy.
Jokowi, as he is known, has sought compromises with corrupt politicians and intolerant religious leaders, and surrounded himself with former generals with little commitment to democratic principles.
On his watch, human rights, the rule of law, and the protection of minorities have all weakened.
A bitter form of religion-based identity politics seems to be embedded in the system.
For the first time, this election will be held on the same day as the legislative elections.
Encouragingly, a new generation of hard-working, more responsive local leaders is now looking to follow his lead.
Law enforcement has become politicised, with government critics arrested and jailed on questionable charges.
Building a democracy in a vast, multi-ethnic, multi-religious nation is not a linear process that can be assessed by a simple measure of progress versus regression.
Academics and human rights activists are right to raise the alarm about the backward steps on Jokowi's watch, which come at a time when democratic ideals and practices are being eroded across the world.
The arrival of freedom of speech and association has allowed all sorts of civil society groups to flourish, including hard-line Islamists who have reignited long-running debates about the role of Islam in the state and society.
It will look at the four very different characters running for the presidency and vice-presidency - and how their backgrounds and views reflect contrasting pressures within the political system.
It will briefly explain why Jokowi and running mate Ma'ruf Amin are the frontrunners.
It draws on face-to-face interviews in Indonesia with politicians, senior officials, human rights activists, and other key participants.
Joko Widodo, the incumbent From small-town mayor to president, Jokowi has always insisted that he will not change his nuts-and-bolts style.[5] His soaring popularity, first as mayor of Solo in central Java, and then as governor of Jakarta, stemmed from his clean reputation, his man-of-the-people image and his focus on getting things done, from clearing riverbank slums to sprucing up decrepit markets.
"No problem," the new president replied.
"Now I have a plane."[6] Five years on, Jokowi's workmanlike attitude, and his focus on short-term tactics over long-term strategy, continues to be his greatest strength - and his greatest weakness.
Following years of neglect under previous governments, the 57-year-old former furniture businessman has significantly accelerated the development of infrastructure, from toll roads to airports.
After decades of delays and just in time for the April election, Jakarta finally got its first metro line, a big advance for the world's second biggest urban area after Tokyo.
Jokowi has looked most happy, and most authoritative, donning a hard hat and inspecting infrastructure projects across the country.
He has also pushed his government to extend access to education and health for the poor, and in the process helped promote demand among Indonesians for better services.
During his first term, the official poverty rate has fallen from around 11 per cent to just below 10 per cent, although, as in many countries, there is scepticism about such official data being massaged for political ends.[7] Economic growth, measured by GDP, has expanded by around 5 per cent per year on his watch, well below his early promise to boost it to 7 per cent but not bad compared to other countries in the region, China excluded.
However, Jokowi's paramount focus on infrastructure, and his ad hoc style, has limited his ability to tackle the complex political and social challenges facing this large and diverse Muslim-majority country.[8] He has done little to confront the vested interests that have stymied the reforms needed to improve the uneven legal system, reduce corruption, and drive a faster-growing and more equitable economy.
Jokowi has followed the lead of his predecessor, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, by entering into a big-tent coalition with a wide range of political parties.
This has stabilised his political position but at the cost of progress.
Like previous presidents, he has surrounded himself with a succession of former generals, from Wiranto, the chief security minister who was indicted by a UN tribunal for crimes against humanity in Timor-Leste, to Luhut Pandjaitan, the maritime affairs minister and a former special forces commander who was also active in Timor-Leste.[9] With these Suharto-era figures advising Jokowi, his law enforcement agencies have embarked on a disturbing crackdown against government critics.
The president has taken a similarly hard-line approach towards the drugs trade.
He has overseen a new round of drug trafficking-related executions, causing a rift with Australia, and mimicked Philippines president Rodrigo Duterte's calls for the police to shoot drug dealers.[10] Despite these signs of toughness, however, advisers say that Jokowi was taken aback by the rise of the strident Islamist groups that drove the campaign to uns
