Since then, the president is elected for a five-year term, as are the 580-member People's Representative Council (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat, DPR), the 152-seat Regional Representative Council (Dewan Perwakilan Daerah, DPD) in 2024 general election, in addition to provincial and municipal legislative councils (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat Daerah Provinsi/Kabupaten/Kota, DPRD).
Members of the Regional Representative Council are elected by single non-transferable vote.
Sastroamidjojo himself declined to stand for election, and Burhanuddin Harahap became prime minister.
The election occurred in two stages: - The election of the members of the DPR, which took place on 29 September 1955.
Twenty-nine political parties and individuals took part; - The election for the members of the Constitutional Assembly, which took place on 15 December 1955.
The first election after the establishment of Suharto's New Order took place on 5 July 1971.
Ten political parties participated.
All elections in this period were won by Golkar.
On every March after the legislative election, the MPR would hold General Sessions (Sidang Umum MPR) in which included the election of president and soon after, the vice president; as mandated by the original constitution.
On all occasions, Suharto was the only person ever stood as a presidential candidate, thus enabling him to be elected unanimously.
On vice-presidential elections, all candidates endorsed by Golkar (and the military faction) went on to be elected unanimously.
To ensure that Golkar always won more than 60% of the popular vote, the New Order regime used a number of tactics.
These included: - Reducing the number of opponents: In 1973, the existing political parties were forced to merge into either PPP or PDI.
Furthermore, they were not allowed to organise at the village level (where the majority of Indonesians live).
To stop the rise of charismatic figures, their candidates had to be vetted by the government.
When a potentially charismatic figure (in the form of founding president Sukarno's daughter Megawati Sukarnoputri) became a leader of the PDI, the government engineered a political convention in Medan in 1996 to remove her.
Private sector workers were reminded of the need for "stability".
on the day after voting, Golkar had already been awarded 94% of its eventual vote.
It was held on 7 June 1999 under the government of B.J.
Habibie.
Forty-eight political parties participated.
Under the constitution, the new president was elected by members of the all-house MPR in a joint sitting.
Megawati then became vice president.
During its 2002 annual session, the MPR added 14 amendments to the 1945 Constitution.
Beginning in 2004, the MPR would be composed of the existing DPR and a new Regional Representative Council (DPD).
A total of 24 parties contested the election.
Golkar Party won the largest share of the vote, at 21.6%, followed by PDI-P, PKB, PPP and newly formed Democratic Party.
17 parties won legislative seats.
Prior to this, local executives had been elected by a vote of the local legislative body.
Prabowo Subianto, with Gibran Rakabuming Raka as his vice-president, defeated both Anies Baswedan, running with Muhaimin Iskandar (24.94%), and also Ganjar Pranowo, running with Mahfud MD (16,4%), winning 58.5% of the vote.
Constitutional
