Our SIDARTHE model discriminates between infected individuals depending on whether they have been diagnosed and on the severity of their symptoms.
The World Health Organisation report dated 5 April 2020 reported 1,133,758 total cases and 62,784 deaths worldwide4.
Italy has been severely affected5.
After the first indigenous case on 21 February 2020 in Lodi province, several suspect cases (initially epidemiologically linked) began to emerge in the south and southwest territory of Lombardy6.
A 'red zone', encompassing 11 municipalities where SARS-CoV-2 infection was endemic, was instituted on 22 February 2020, and put on lockdown to contain the emerging threat.
In the early days of the epidemic in Italy, both symptomatic and asymptomatic people underwent screening.
A government regulation dated 26 February 2020 limited screening to symptomatic subjects only8.
On 8 March 2020, to further contain the spread of SARS-CoV-2, the red zone was extended to the entire area of Lombardy and 14 more northern Italian provinces.
On 9 March 2020, lockdown was declared for the entire country9 and progressively stricter restrictions were adopted.
One commonly used model is the SIR model19 for human-to-human transmission, which describes the flow of individuals through three mutually exclusive stages of infection: susceptible, infected and recovered.
Stochastic transmission models have also been considered24,25.
A summary of the main findings, limitations and implications of the model for policymakers is shown in Table 1.
Our model, named SIDARTHE, discriminates between detected and undetected cases of infection and between different severity of illness (SOI), non-life-threatening cases (asymptomatic and pauci-symptomatic; minor and moderate infection) and potentially life-threatening cases (major and extreme) that require ICU admission.
The total population is partitioned into eight stages of disease: S, susceptible (uninfected); I, infected (asymptomatic or pauci-symptomatic infected, undetected); D, diagnosed (asymptomatic infected, detected); A, ailing (symptomatic infected, undetected); R, recognized (symptomatic infected, detected); T, threatened (infected with life-threatening symptoms, detected); H, healed (recovered); E, extinct (dead).
The interactions among these stages are shown in Fig.
1.
A detailed discussion of the model considerations and parameters is provided in the Methods.
The model parameters have been updated over time to reflect the progressive introduction of increased restrictions.
On day 1, the basic reproduction number was R0 = 2.38, which resulted in a substantial outbreak.
On day 4, R0 = 1.66 as a result of the introduction of basic social distancing, awareness of the epidemic, hygiene and behavioral recommendations, and early measures by the Italian government (for example, closing schools).
At day 12, asymptomatic individuals were almost no longer detected, and screening was focused on symptomatic individuals (leading to R0 = 1.80).
On day 22, a partially incomplete lockdown, of which the effectiveness was reduced by the movement of people from the north to the south of Italy when the country-wide lockdown was announced but not yet enforced, yielded R0 = 1.60.
When the national lockdown was fully operational and strictly enforced, after day 28, R0 = 0.99, finally reaching below 1.
Of the total cases, 35% were undetected.
In Fig.
2b, the infected individuals are partitioned into the different subpopulations (diagnosed or not, with different SOI classification).
Over a 350-day horizon, in the absence of further policy changes, Fig.
The actual case fatality rate (CFR) is 9.8% and the perceived CFR is 13%.
Extended Data Fig.
1 shows how the situation could have evolved if milder or stronger measures had been implemented earlier.
The curve following day 22 shows the importance and effectiveness of a prompt lockdown.
We predict a range of possible future scenarios, with different measures enforced after day 50.
Figure 3a,b shows, if the lockdown is weakened, a sudden and strong increase of the spread of disease, a prolonged emergency and more deaths (0.12% of the population in the first 350 days).
A policy of population-wide testing and contact tracing would help to rapidly end the epidemic, as suggested by Peto28.
