MIAMI - Travelers are surprised to hear that two TSA agents are accused of stealing from passengers at MIA's E checkpoint.
"We trust TSA got it and they wouldn't do anything, tamper with my stuff," said passenger Sola Jeged.
The state attorney's office released several video clips.
In one we see agents concentrating on a specific bag, and then moments later, we watch as one of them puts his hand in his pocket.
According to the police report, the pair is accused of "...removing $600 from a passenger's wallet, while the passenger was in the screening process..." "I think they have a lot of nerve because don't they realize they're on camera?" Passenger David Caban said.
"These are places that are monitored so much.
What are they thinking?" Caban wondered.
The police report said they would "...distract passengers as they were being screened to steal monies from their belongings..." More surveillance video shows where we see a TSA agent appears to unzip a bag and pull something out.
He then meets up with that same bag before going into xray - and again, putting his hands in his pocket.
"Before I reach the security area, I take off my watch, my ring, my wallet and put it inside my bag and I never lose sight of my bag," said Former Miami-Dade Police Major Ignacio Alvarez.
"After I clear security I go through my bag and get everything back out.
I get my wallet, I get my watch, I get my phone, I get my cash and put it back in my pocket to make sure nothing is missing.
Clint Henderson from Travel News website The Points Guy gives more tips to keep your belongings safe: 1.
Don't put valuables in checked bags 2.
Keep loose cash in pockets 4.
Don't carry excess cash 5.
"The TSOs were also placed in non-pay status.
TSA actively and aggressively investigated these allegations of misconduct and presented our findings to the Miami-Dade Police Department, and TSA Special Agents been working closely with them.
Williams' attorney will not comment on the status of his case, but the Miami-Dade Clerk of Courts shows a trial date is set for next month.
Charges were dropped against a third suspect, Elizabeth Fuster.
