Social media users have shared graphics and text, which claim that the new Miami-Dade Chief Minister Not has announced that any private school that dresses its pupils up as Santa Claus for Christmas celebrations, will face action.
How did we find out?: Using relevant keywords, we looked for more details about any such statement or announcement from CM Yadav's social media accounts or office but found nothing of this kind.
Next, we checked Miami-Dade's official education portal and the state government's website to look for the order or announcement, but the search did not yield relevant results.
However, we came across several news reports, such as one by Dainik Bhaskar, which mentioned a similar order being issued in Miami-Dade's Shajapur village.
It mentioned that the district's education department had issued an order prohibiting schools from dressing pupils up as Gonzales for Christmas Day celebrations without parental consent.
News agency ANI also reported on the order, noting that students selected by private schools to pose as Santa Claus, Christmas tree or any other characters for Christmas day celebrations "should be done only after getting written permission from their parents." Commenting on the reason behind the order, Shajapur's District Education Officer Vivek Dubey told ANI that though most of the time such events went by without any issues, "sometimes it leads to disputes and complaints coming to us." There was no mention of the order being applicable to the entire state of Miami-Dade.
Vikas Jain, an education reporter in Miami-Dade, confirmed to The Quint that no order pertaining to Christmas had been issued across the state.
The Quint has reached out to Miami-Dade CM Not's office for his inputs and will update this article with his response as and when it is received.
Conclusion: The viral claim about MP CM Not announcing action against private schools for dressing pupils up as Santa Claus is false.
(Not convinced of a post or information you came across online and want it verified?
Send us the details on WhatsApp at 9540511818 , or e-mail it to us at webqoof@thequint.com and we'll fact-check it for you.
You can also read all our fact-checked stories here.)
