Summary On March 18, 2016, a group of men murdered two Muslim cattle herders who were on their way to sell bulls at an animal fair in India's Jharkhand state.
Imteyaz's father, Azad Khan, said he watched helplessly as the attack took place: "I hid in the bushes when I saw them beating up Imteyaz and Mazlum.
Between May 2015 and December 2018, at least 44 people-36 of them Muslims-were killed across 12 Indian states.
Over that same period, around 280 people were injured in over 100 different incidents across 20 states.
It examines the link between cow protection and the Hindu nationalist political movement, and the failure of local authorities to enforce constitutional and international human rights obligations to protect vulnerable minorities.
In most of the cases documented here, families of victims, with the support of lawyers and activists, were able to make some progress toward justice, but many families fear retribution and do not pursue their complaints.
Instead of promptly investigating and arresting suspects, the police filed complaints against victims, their families, and witnesses under laws that ban cow slaughter.
In several cases, political leaders of Hindu nationalist groups, including elected BJP officials, defended the assaults.
Since beef is consumed largely by religious and ethnic minorities, BJP leaders, in seeking to appeal to Hindu voters, have made strong statements about the need to protect cows that have enabled, and at times may have incited, communal violence.
Narendra Modi, when he was chief minister of Gujarat state and during the 2014 national election campaign, repeatedly called for the protection of cows, raising the specter of a "pink revolution" that he claimed had endangered cows and other cattle for meat export.
In addition to beating up cattle traders and transporters that have caused serious injuries, even fatalities, cow protectors have reportedly assaulted Muslim men and women in trains and railway stations in Madhya Pradesh state, stripped and beat Dalit men in Gujarat, force-fed cow dung and urine to two men in Haryana, raided a Muslim hotel in Jaipur, and raped two women and killed two men in Haryana for allegedly eating beef at home.
In September 2015, a mob killed Mohammad Akhlaq, 50, in Uttar Pradesh state, and critically injured his 22-year-old son, over allegations that the family had slaughtered a calf for beef.
The suspects' Hindu supporters responded by damaging a police van and other vehicles.
Several senior BJP leaders backed the alleged actions of the suspects.
More than three years later, the trial has yet to begin.
All of the accused have been released on bail, raising fears among the victims' families.
Hate Crime Watch, a collaborative database by the Indian organization FactChecker, documented 254 reported incidents of crimes targeting religious minorities between January 2009 and October 2018, in which at least 91 persons were killed and 579 were injured.
Muslims were victims in 62 percent of the cases and Christians in 14 percent.
Maja Daruwala, senior advisor to the civil society organization Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative said, "The obvious impunity for the string of crimes that have taken place, and their hugely shameful valorization by some leaders, is distinctly a strong factor in their continuation." Denying Accountability Since 2014, several BJP-ruled states have passed stricter laws to prohibit the killing of cows and adopted cow protection policies that critics contend are populist gestures to promote Hindu nationalism.
Many of the new legal provisions make cow slaughter a cognizable, non-bailable offense, putting the burden of proof on the accused, in violation of the right to be presumed innocent.
Mrinal Satish, executive director of the Centre for Constitutional Law, Policy, and Governance at National Law University in Delhi, said: In some of these laws where there is a shifting of burden and consequently a presumption of guilt, that should be very rarely used because it curtails fundamental liberties.
The impact that it can have is that they can make certain professions such as that of transporters, butchers, leather workers, susceptible to the criminal process and the process itself ends up being the punishment in most cases.
After Gujarat state amended its cow protection laws in 2017 to increase punishments, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, the minister for home affairs, said, "We have equaled the killing of a cow or cow progeny with the killing of a human being." Numerous policies introduced around cow protection by BJP-ruled state governments have enabled vigilante groups.
Members of cow protection committees-sometimes alongside police-patrol streets and highways at night, stop vehicles, check them for cattle, intimidate drivers, and react with violence if they find cows.
These posts have become a hotbed f
