The old order was gone and they did not know how to meet the challenges of the new and unfriendly one.
Far from improving, 70 years after Independence, the situation has gone worse with a Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) regime headed by its pracharak Narendra Modi as Prime Minister.
They face discrimination everywhere.
Their standing in national politics is accurately reflected in the results of all the general elections to the Lok Sabha since 1952.
Muslims constitute 10.5 per cent of the population.
In the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled States-Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh-the RSS' political front, the BJP, has not a single Muslim Member of Legislative Assembly.
On June 14, 1983, a "High Power Panel on Minorities, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes & Other Weaker Sections" submitted its report in two volumes to the Government of India.
Only one of its seven members was a Muslim, a politician from the Congress, Dr Rafiq Zakaria, who served also as its Secretary.
It is fair to mention that he did his best to ascertain the true state of affairs.
No Central Government Department or Public Sector Undertaking could enlighten us specifically as to the number of employees belonging to the minorities, nor how much benefits were they deriving from the economic activities.
The commission was headed by a Chief Justice of India, Justice Ranganath Misra, who had performed deplorably in every institution he had served and became a Congress politician.
The report has a dissent by the Member-Secretary Asha Das, a former senior bureaucrat, which had statements one would expect only in BJP circles.
For the first time, the remit focussed on Muslims alone.
Political representation Yet, can you name a single political party which voices the Muslims' grievances?
Then, why blame Muslim political parties that do?
Why blame men like Asaduddin Owaisi, MP, for their courageous stand?
One example of the secular parties' indifference will suffice.
On February 12, 2001, Justice Jagdish Bhalla of the Allahabad High Court criticised the State government for not issuing a notification for the trial of two criminal cases after the demolition of the Babri Masjid in order to facilitate an early trial.
This is fraught with peril for all in the long run.
Its self-image is influenced, no less, by the image which the majority group in the country has of the minority community and by its understanding of history.
For long, the alternative to Partition seemed to be constitutional protection.
Experience has demonstrated that constitutional protection without political participation, which alone can enable them to share power, provides no security.
This is to no small extent the result of the political course which Indian Muslims and Indian political parties adopted in the early days of such politics.
The only Muslim League leader who began articulating a strategy in the new situation was H.S.
Suhrawardy, former Premier of Bengal.
His letter to Khaliquzzaman on September 10, 1947, listed the options (Khaliquzzaman, pages 397-399; see box).
Another was to retain "group solidarity" and yet seek friendship with Hindus.
He raised an important question which is relevant still.
"What I fear is, will they have respect for you if you have not strength that is to say if you give up your particular group solidarity?
At the same time, any attempt to acquire solidarity or strength will raise suspicion in their minds as regards bona fides.
Here the question what should be our attitude towards the Hindus is very important.
They may refuse to accept you as the League treating with the Congress and in a system of joint electorate will support the breed known as Nationalist Muslims." Several other options were mentioned, only to be dismissed.
But on one point, he was categorical: "I think that the Muslims of the minority provinces will have to chalk out their own plan." He suggested a convention of Muslim legislators.
Khaliquzzaman was not interested.
He settled down in Pakistan in October 1947.
Mohamed Raza Khan was a member of the Muslim League's Council since 1943, of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) until 1963 and of the Madras Legislature from 1946 to 1962.
Jinnah left for Karachi to lead the new state.
A fear complex had overtaken the Muslim community throughout the country.
All that they wanted was that there should be no communal trouble in their areas.
They practically lost all interest in politics and wanted that they should be left to themselves." Azad's advice Maulana Abul Kalam Azad's address to the Delhi Muslims assembled at the Jama Masjid has been much lauded for its oratorical qualities.
A report in The Times of India of the following day is quoted here.
Muslim politics was clay in his hands to mould as he wished.
Even the Jamiatul-Ulema-e-Hind." Its main task had been to guide the Muslims in the cultural and religious spheres.
But it entered the political field in the cause of Indian nationalism.
It "will have to cease its political activities now that India has achieved liberation".
