Immediately, the police registered a case against Thakur, who is also the prime suspect in a 2008 terror attack in the city of Malegaon, Maharashtra, which took place in a Muslim cemetery adjacent to a mosque and claimed the lives of six people and injured an additional 100.
She was arrested that year and was granted bail for health reasons in 2017 by the Bombay High Court.
According to Indian law, an individual accused of a crime can participate in elections and take office but cannot if convicted.
Like all other BJP candidates, Thakur benefited from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's popularity during the elections, and the allegations did not discourage people from voting for her.
With her pixie-cut hairstyle, her occasional appearances in the Indian Parliament on a wheelchair, which reminds her supporters of the alleged "torture" inflicted on her when she was in prison, and her penchant for playing basketball and cricket - which has surprised many, given her "health issues" - often in all-male groups, Thakur embodies a kind of masculinity seldom associated with women in right-wing politics in India.
"She calls a spade a spade.
She is fearless even though she has had to suffer for her honesty," says Chaitra Kundapura, a young activist from the coastal town of Kundapur in the southern state of Karnataka.
Kundapura was referring to the alleged police torture inflicted on Thakur and the political ostracization she was subjected to for years before she made her way into the political mainstream.
"As a woman who stands for Hindutva, it is very important to be fearless.
...
The future of Hindutva depends on women," says the slight-framed woman, her eyes widening animatedly as she speaks.
...
So, we need more and more young girls to come forward and participate in this national movement," she says.
Kundapura is not an exception.
These women are ambitious, educated and often economically independent.
Products of a post-liberalization India, they have had greater access to education and jobs than their counterparts in previous generations.
Having experienced both social and economic freedoms, they no longer want to play a secondary role to men.
Yet the ideology they espouse and the Hindu nation they envision are deeply conservative and patriarchal.
Only then could an ideal family - and by extension an ideal nation - be formed," writes the journalist and author Akshaya Mukul in "Gita Press and the Making of Hindu India." Works put out by the world's largest publisher of Hindu texts, the Gita Press, which has been publishing extensively on the ideal Hindu dharma (religion), culture and nationalism since 1923, suggested that a woman's non-adherence to these set rules could affect broader Hindu society.
Kundapura hails from a lower-middle-class family and belongs to a community known as the Other Backward Castes, an official term used to describe communities that are socially disadvantaged in India's rigid caste system.
While her father sells milk to make a living, Kundapura had a successful career as a news anchor at a local TV channel in Karnataka.
It was then that Kundapura began thinking about women's freedoms in modern workplaces.
Modernity's promises of individual freedom began to ring hollow to her, which made her think that individuals were as shackled in the modern workplace as they were said to be in traditional social settings.
Slowly, in a manner not too different from tensions observed in other traditions around the world where the younger generation must grapple between the old and the new, traditional ideas of society and womanhood began to seem more appealing to the once-ambitious news anchor.
...
"It is popular culture, especially from the West, that has made us believe that women cannot protect themselves," she says.
On the other hand, Hindu nationalist literature, which Kundapura claims to have read extensively, glorifies Hindu goddesses and women of ancient times as being both virtuous and strong - before they were allegedly "corrupted" by invasions, first by Muslim rulers and then by British colonialism.
"A lot of these women who wear Western clothes and call themselves feminist are often catering to the male gaze, and simply want to look desirable for men," she says.
Hindu nationalist literature further portrayed the Indian women's movement as "Western" and therefore ill-suited for Hindu women, who must find their voice within the Hindu dharma.
Feminism, in their scheme of things, could destabilize the family unit by instilling individualism in women, making them bad wives and mothers.
