Dingoes were once common on Fraser Island, but are now decreasing. The island dingoes are reputedly some of the last remaining 'pure' dingoes in Eastern Australia and to prevent cross-breeding, dogs are not allowed on the island. According to DNA-examinations from the year 2004, the island dingoes are "pure". However, skull measurements from the 1990s detected crossbreeds between dingoes and domestic dogs among the population.
In 1936, all nine states were transferred to the Eastern States Agency, the officials of which came under the direct authority of the Governor-General of India, rather than under that of any Provinces.
Abusharaf also researches relationships between Africa and the Gulf region. She has published the first research into migration to pre-oil Qatar, looking to the country's history pre-1930s.
The first occupant of the house was Navy Colonel Robert Means Thompson, an ardent supporter of the Navy League of the United States, who served several years as its president. When he left the house in 1921, Frank Ellis sold it to the Romanian Government represented by the Minister of the Legation, Prince Antoine Bibesco.
Starotavlarovo is located 37 km north of Buzdyak (the district's administrative centre) by road. Kubyak is the nearest rural locality.
Pappobolus nigrescens is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae. It is found only in Ecuador. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forests. It is threatened by habitat loss.
Pteronotus is a genus of bats. Eight extant species have been recognized, as well as one relatively recently extinct species.
Between the adductor magnus and the vastus medialis four muscles are inserted: the iliacus and pectineus above; the adductor brevis and adductor longus below.
Perhaps only 3,000 Yankee Bicycles were built.  The unique elements were not readily accepted by the bike industry which, arguably,  valued only industry leaders' innovations.  The name was derived as a reference to "Yankee ingenuity".
Cypripedioideae: 5 genera and 130 species, from the temperate regions of the world, as well as tropical America and tropical Asia
Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts
»Alex«, seufzt Lotta und steigt widerwillig aus dem warmen Bett.
Such an attempt has been made here. The MBTester is composed of a modeler and a test case generation engine. Business owners or testers translate their requirements into behavior trees using the modeler, and then (optionally) integrate a few related behavior trees into a composite one. A behavior tree can be fed into the backend engine to generate test cases, test scripts, and test data automatically.
On February 2, 2016, Hill signed a reserve/future contract with the Cincinnati Bengals. During the preseason, he rushed for a total of 18 yards. On September 3, 2016, he was waived by the team.
The S Series is positioned as a mid-range ThinkPad offering, containing ultrabooks derived from the Edge Series.  As of August 2013, the S Series includes S531 and S440 models; their cases are made of aluminum and magnesium alloy, available in silver and gunmetal colors.
Nationality words link to articles with information on the nation's poetry or literature (for instance, Irish or France).
Lotta ahnt schon, woran es fehlt: Die eigensinnige Ziegendame wünscht auch ihre Mama, die Oma des jungen Zickleins, an ihrer Seite.
The Glasgow and South Western Railway (G&SWR) fully opened its main line between Glasgow and Carlisle via Dumfries in 1850, revolutionising transport facilities at the places served. Communities that were by-passed began to feel disadvantages of not having a railway connection.
In December 1971, a small granite memorial to Hamp was erected at the site of his hut, and in the early 1970s the locations of events leading up the alleged massacre were marked by P. J. Baillie. These included the sites of the Beevor and Easton huts, the tree from which Beevor's murderers were hanged, and Easton's grave at Lake Hamilton. Until 2017, no memorial to the Aboriginal people killed in the lead-up to or during the fatal clash had been erected.
In 1785 the stadholder left The Hague and moved his court to Nijmegen in Guelders, a city remote from the heart of Dutch political life. In June 1787, his energetic wife Wilhelmina (the sister of Frederick William II of Prussia) tried to travel to The Hague. Outside Schoonhoven, she was stopped by Patriot militiamen and taken to a farm near Goejanverwellesluis. Within two days she was forced to return to Nijmegen, an insult not unnoticed in Prussia.
Zu Fuß folgen wir dem Wegweiser, der uns durch den wilden Wald in Richtung des endlosen Fjälls führt.
Wir befinden uns im Naturreservat Städjan-Nipfjället im nördlichen Dalarna und unser Ziel ist die Alm Lofjätåsen.
Für zwei Tage und Nächte haben wir die Großstadt hinter uns gelassen.
Wir möchten ausprobieren, wie es sich fernab der modernen Zivilisation auf einer »Fäbod«, einer traditionell-schwedischen Viehwirtschaft, lebt.
The second wave of the Reformation, came in the form of Anabaptism, that was popular among ordinary farmers in Holland and Friesland. Anabaptists were socially very radical and equalitarian; they believed that the apocalypse was very near. They refused to live the old way, and began new communities, creating considerable chaos. A prominent Dutch Anabaptist was Menno Simons, who initiated the Mennonite church. The movement was allowed in the north, but never grew to a large scale.
Nach einer Wanderung von zwei Kilometern öffnet sich plötzlich eine Lichtung im tiefen Wald.
Hinter einem Zaun stehen Ziegen und Zicklein in perfekter Reihe und schauen uns neugierig entgegen.
Alle in niedlichen, graugesprenkelten Anzügen und mit schönen, langen Bärten.
Alis composed a series of englynion discussing the kind of husband which she wished to marry and commenting on her father's second marriage in old age, and a cywydd to reconcile Dafydd Llwyd Llydan and Grigor y Moch.
Da steht Lotta Rosborg und ihr Sohn Erik, knapp drei Jahre alt, hängt auf ihrer Hüfte.
On July 24, 2008, Albert signed a five-year contract with the Chiefs. It was announced by the Chiefs that he would be moved to the tackle position, though he played guard at Virginia. Despite missing all four preseason games with a foot injury suffered at training camp, Albert still managed to start 15 games at left tackle (only missing Week 5 at Carolina due to an elbow injury). He allowed just 4.5 sacks in 2008, and the only penalty called against him all season was a false start.
Anthony Morris House is a historic home located near Norristown in Worcester Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania.  The log house was built in 1717, and is a two-story, two bay by two bay, stone dwelling.  It measures approximately 25 feet square.
Younger students on the base attended Damon Elementary School or Harrison Elementary School. Kindergarten-age children would attend school in either morning or afternoon sessions, and the older students were given the standard fare of lunch offerings. School educators were rated highly in the state. Students in grades 7 through twelve attended the nearby Limestone High School.
Middens from rodent activities such as those of the Pack rat are a rich source of plant macrofossils from late Pleistocene habitats. At Point of Rocks in Nevada by 11700 BP desert shrubs such as Desert Almond had replaced Juniper and Joshua trees, indicating the onset of the modern desert. Somewhat earlier, 17000-14000 BP, Desert Almond flourished in a mixed desert and woodland ecology on the Colorado Plateau.
From 2003 to 2006, Caragher was running backs coach at Kentucky and was recruiting coordinator from 2005 to 2006. Kentucky's 8-5 2006 season was the school's best record since 1984, and Kentucky's 2006 Music City Bowl victory marked its first bowl game since 1999 and first bowl win since 1984.
He inherited his father's Rushbrooke Hall estate following his death in 1552. A fervent Roman Catholic, he was knighted by Queen Mary I and served as a Justice of the Peace in Suffolk. In this role he was a notable prosecutor and persecutor of Protestants across East Anglia until the accession of Queen Elizabeth I. He served as Sheriff of Norfolk and Suffolk in 1558 and 1572.
Paris changed its commercial name to become Paris City Vision after its merger with Cityrama  in 2010.
In 2005, his firm Babrius was appointed by the Secretariat of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of Countries [ACP] aligned to the EU to write a report, "Study on the Future of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of Countries" which was published in French and English by the ACP in Brussels on 13 February 2006
Ahmet Zeki Soydemir (1883; Salonica (Thessaloniki) - Sep 4, 1954; Istanbul) was an officer of the Ottoman Army and a general of the Turkish Army.
Chase Walbaum at Undertow Press said, "The track is classic FTSK and boasts one of the catchiest chorus' on the record. Kenzie Thomas of Ultimate Guitar listed "Chin Up Kid" as one of the highlights of the album.
Under the Act, CNA is governed by a seven-member Board of Directors comprising established media professionals. The Board includes representatives of the Cyprus Journalists Union, the Cyprus Newspaper and Magazine Publishers Association, CyBC and the PIO.
WFMV was one of several Richmond FM stations receiving permission from the Federal Communications Commission for unusually high power.  Today, Richmond is in Zone 1, limited to a maximum of 50,000 watts effective radiated power (ERP). Before current class power limits were drafted in 1964, however,, WFMV was permitted to operate at 73,800 watts, WRNL-FM (now WRXL) broadcast at 120,000 watts, and, to this day, 94.5 WRVQ (then WRVA-FM) is grandfathered at 200,000 watts.
Auf dem Weideland stehen die Hütte, in der wir wohnen, und ein schöner alter Kuhstall.
Merrilee K. Fullerton is a Canadian politician and physician who is the Ontario Minister of Children, Community and Social Service since June 18, 2021. She represents the riding of Kanata-Carleton in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a member of the Progressive Conservative Party since 2018.
Weiter unten, am Bach, liegt das Kühlhaus, durch das normalerweise Wasser aus einer kalten Quelle fließt, um dann in eine Holzkiste geleitet zu werden, die wie ein Kühlschrank funktioniert.
Hoops 4 Hope is a non-profit organization in South Africa that uses basketball to help children from underserved areas become proactive leaders in their individual lives and in their communities. It has been in existence for over 15 years. Hoops 4 Hope in conjunction with its sister organization Soccer 4 Hope has given 10,000 children the opportunity to participate in sports.
Scary Movie 4 is the fourth film of the franchise. The film opened with $40 million at the weekend box office, making it the third best opening in the series. With a $178,049,620 at the worldwide box office, Scary Movie 4 ranks as the third highest grossing entry. The main target of spoof was War of the Worlds, Saw, The Village and The Grudge. The film concludes the story-arc that began with the first film and is also the last in the series to feature any of the original cast members.
The film was also praised by many cult film fans/followers as one of Kim Tai Chung's rare and exciting performance with plenty of powerful fight scenes put on to it together. As of 2020, the film is known for the cult following among the martial arts movie fans for being Tai Chung's only local South Korean film role to date, as well as having a score of 7 out of 10 on IMDb.
The company was in the headlines in the mid-1980s for selling its design for a chemical plant to make phosphorus trichloride to Krebs A.G., a Swiss company. The plant modeled after a Stauffer plant in Pennsylvania, was subsequently built by Krebs for El Nasr Pharmaceutical Company of Egypt. Phosphorus trichloride is well known for its dual use capacity as a starting material for pesticide products as well as Sarin.
While Bua was moved to safety to begin the 2005 season, Dolphins waived him on September 4. He was later signed as a free agent, but he was waived again on October 19. He was then signed by the Cincinnati Bengals, but on August 20, 2006, he again was waived. Bua reportedly worked out with the Minnesota Vikings, but was never signed.
Various Ahmadi mosques include Noor Mosque, opened in Oslo August 1, 1980 and Baitun Nasr Mosque in Furuset, Oslo. There are about 1,700 Ahmadi Muslims in Norway. The majority of the Ahmadi Muslims in Norway are from Pakistan.
Thorpe Marriott is served by Trinity Ecumenical Church (Methodist & Anglican) and by St Margaret's Drayton and St Edmund's Taverham, partner churches with local Methodists in the Trinity LEP (Local Ecumenical Partnership). St Margaret's, together with Drayton Methodist and Trinity Church  are members of 'Churches Together in Drayton, Taverham & Thorpe Marriott'.
Chippewa Valley Technical College is one of the 16 technical and community colleges in the Wisconsin Technical College System, centered in Eau Claire, Wisconsin.  It serves an eleven-county area with the largest campus located in Eau Claire (actually home to three separate campuses:  Clairemont, Gateway, and West) with major regional centers in Chippewa Falls, Menomonie, Neillsville and River Falls.
His book Los Lobos: Dream in Blue was published by University of Texas Press in 2015. It was the first book-length critical history of the veteran band from East L.A. The Lincoln Journal-Star called it "a much needed, insightful look." Record Collector News observed that Morris was the ideal teller of this tale. Latin American Music Review cited its "journalistic, accessible style" and viewed it as an excellent companion text for other studies of Mexican-American popular music.
Mittendrin steht Erik mit einem Milchschnurrbart und hält sein Lieblingskitz Laban fest im Arm.
Nur die Kühe sind noch nicht aufgetaucht und das beunruhigt Lotta.
Auf der Alm haben die Tiere die Freiheit, zu kommen und zu gehen, wann sie wollen.
Besonders die Kühe machen oft lange Wanderungen.
See guidelines for writing about novels. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.
In 1802 Charles Bragge, a family connection, presented Hay to the rectory of Ackworth, West Yorkshire. In 1806 William Markham gave him a prebend in York Minster.
When Memnon reaches the Greek ships, Nestor begs Achilles to fight him and avenge Antilochos, leading to the two men clashing while both wearing divine armour made by Hephaestus, making another parallel between the two warriors. Zeus favours both of them and makes each man tireless and huge so that the whole battlefield can watch them clash as demigods. Eventually, Achilles stabs Memnon through the heart, causing his entire army to flee in terror.
Welles specialized in Latin American diplomatic affairs and served several posts in Washington and in the field.  President Calvin Coolidge distrusted Welles because of his divorce and private sex life. He left public service and from bases in his two mansions in the Washington area he wrote a book on the history of the Dominican Republic.
Sekundenlang kommt auf der kleinen Lichtung alles zum Stillstand.
Über Wald und Fjäll strömt ein Gesang, so eindringlich und klangstark, dass er im Umkreis von mehreren Kilometern zu hören sein muss.
Dudi Sela was the defending champion, but chose to compete at the 2014 Delray Beach International Tennis Championships.
Es handelt sich um eine spezielle Vokaltechnik namens »Kulning«, eine Art Lockruf, der seit dem Mittelalter auf den Almen benutzt wird, um das Vieh heimzuholen.
Der Gedanke daran, wie viele Frauen hier schon vor Lotta in der Dämmerung auf der Weide gestanden und nach ihren Tieren gerufen haben, ist aufregend.
In 2013, Paul Raymond revealed that a new UFO album was in the works, but there was "no detailed talk of that yet." The album, titled A Conspiracy of Stars, was released on 23 February 2015.
Google's Matt Cutts has called Search Engine Watch "a must read." Yahoo's Tim Mayer has said that it is the "most authoritative source on search."
Sie bindet sich ein rotkariertes Kopftuch um und füllt einen Eimer grosszügig mit Futterpellets.
This article incorporates text from the public domain Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships. The entry can be found here.
Arthur Lions notes in Death on the Cheap: The Lost B Movies of Film Noir, "A top-notch cast is wasted in a total clunker. The film takes the award, however, for the movie with the shortest performance by a top-billed star. Leading man Tone, after his brief initial appearance, spends most of the picture as the "corpse" in the laundry room."
Voller Wärme erzählt sie uns von den speziellen Eigenheiten ihrer Schützlinge und zu jedem gibt es eine Geschichte.
Values for a thermodynamic property A deduced from a sampling run performed in this manner can be transformed into canonical-ensemble values by applying the formula:
The Concorde District is a high school district in the state of Virginia that includes public schools  from Fairfax County. It is widely regarded as one of the most competitive districts in the Virginia High School League (VHSL).
Man versteht immer besser, dass Lotta manchmal das Fleisch eines geschlachteten Tiers sehr lange in der Kühlung liegen lässt, bis die Trauer abgeklungen ist.
Although no software beyond a scanning utility is a feature of any scanner, many scanners come bundled with software. Typically, in addition to the scanning utility, some type of image-editing application (such as Adobe Photoshop), and optical character recognition (OCR) software are supplied. OCR software converts graphical images of text into standard text that can be edited using common word-processing and text-editing software; accuracy is rarely perfect.
Hunting-gathering was the common human mode of subsistence throughout the Paleolithic, but the observation of current-day hunters and gatherers does not necessarily reflect Paleolithic societies; the hunter-gatherer cultures examined today have had much contact with modern civilization and do not represent "pristine" conditions found in uncontacted peoples.
Aus dem Wald ertönt Geheul.
In 1785 the stadholder left The Hague and moved his court to Nijmegen in Guelders, a city remote from the heart of Dutch political life. In June 1787, his energetic wife Wilhelmina (the sister of Frederick William II of Prussia) tried to travel to The Hague. Outside Schoonhoven, she was stopped by Patriot militiamen and taken to a farm near Goejanverwellesluis. Within two days she was forced to return to Nijmegen, an insult not unnoticed in Prussia.
Lotta bittet mich, das Melken zu übernehmen und ich versuche, mich an das zu erinnern, was ich vorhin in Lottas Almlektion, beim Melken eines glitschigen gelben Plastikhandschuhs, gelernt habe.
Jetzt steht die Ziege Greta vor mir und starrt mich an.
Was bei Lotta so leicht aussah, erscheint mir unmöglich.
In a mature environment, graduate students pursue their studies, advance their career through living and meeting with colleagues from around the world, and make life-long friends. They also meet and network with renowned visiting academics, specialists and intellects from around the world and from all disciplines.
In September 2004 a PAF contingent of six F-16A/B arrived in Turkey to take part in the international Anatolian Eagle 2004 exercise. As well as the Turkish Air Force, the air forces of Germany, the Netherlands, Italy and the United States also participated.
1l5t: Crystal Structure of a Domain-Opened Mutant (R121D) of the Human Lactoferrin N-lobe Refined From a Merohedrally-Twinned Crystal Form.
Dhanpat Rai Nahar (1919 - 2009) was an Indian politician and trade unionist. He was the joint secretary of the All India Agricultural Workers Union 1982-1992 and vice president of the organisation 1992-2003. He was a member of the Punjab State Committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) until 2004.
A quantum heterostructure is a heterostructure in a substrate (usually a semiconductor material), where size restricts the movements of the charge carriers forcing them into a quantum confinement. This leads to the formation of a set of discrete energy levels at which the carriers can exist. Quantum heterostructures have sharper density of states than structures of more conventional sizes.
Chippewas of Sarnia Band v Canada (AG),  2000 CanLII 16991, 51 OR (3d) 641; 195 DLR (4th) 135 was a decision of the Court of Appeal for Ontario concerning aboriginal title in Canada.
The Minister of the Interior also takes on the role of the former Minister of Worship and is formally consulted in the process of appointment of Catholic diocesan bishops (Briand-Ceretti Agreement). The Minister of Worship used to be a fully-fledged position; the office was abolished in 1912.
»Was für tüchtige Mädchen«, flüstert Lotta ihnen lobend zu.
The township comprises the communities of Armstrong Corners, Balderson, Beveridge Locks, Cook's Shore, Craig Shore, Drummond Centre, Ebbs Shore, Elmgrove, Ferguson Falls, Glenview, Innisville, McCreary's Shore, McCulloughs Landing, McNaughton Shore, Port Elmsley, Prestonvale, Richardson, Rideau Ferry, Robertson's Shore and Wayside.
Pseudo Interactive was a video game developer based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada and started in 1995 by David Wu, Rich Hilmer, and Daniel Posner. In 2006, the company had over fifty employees. After closing, several employees formed DrinkBox Studios.
In the 1980s, the Angelina & Neches River Authority was contracted by the Texas Department of Water Resources to carry out studies on sewage treatment. One such study was a study of seven municipal sewage treatment plants in East Texas in 1982. Another study, in 1985, concerned sludge disposal methods for sewage treatment plants in the upper part of the Neches River watershed.
The episcopate of the ROCOR asserted that Metropolitan Vitaly was being held hostage by schismatics who took advantage of his failing health and used his name to produce a schism. They claimed that Metropolitan Vitaly's entourage forged his signature on epistles and documents. One of the churches which splintered from the ROCOR(V) is the Russian True Orthodox Church which was formed in 2002.
Campbell was born in Carleton, Ottawa, Ontario in 1891 according to official records, though he sometimes falsely claimed to have been born in Medicine Hat, Alberta, and gave a birth year of 1888.   He studied in Belfast, fought in Europe in the First World War, and after his first marriage and divorce in Canada returned to settle in England in 1930.
The A-series was developed as an all-around productivity machine, equipped with hardware powerful enough to make it a desktop replacement. Hence it was the biggest and heaviest ThinkPad series of its time, but also had features not even found in a T-series of the same age. The A-series was dropped in favor of the G-series and R-series.
Langsam kommt die Sonne hinter den Baumwipfeln hervor.
On the south-west of Vasai Jain temple, there are ruins of another mosque known as Solahkhambhi Mosque which is partially buried in the sand and is no longer in use.
Pollex mindanaoi is a moth of the family Erebidae first described by Michael Fibiger in 2007. It is known from Mindanao in the Philippines.
Es gibt Woche
