easypaisa digital bank lets you skip the hassle of going to the bank and enjoy effortless financial solutions anywhere.
Send money, get mobile load, activate packages, or start saving, do it all!
Psst..
did we mention that you will get Rs.
100 as sign-up reward?
Introducing Term Deposits Start investing with plans as short as 7 days, tailored to your financial goals.
Enjoy guaranteed profits and a fully digital experience!
Key features: - Monthly Account limit of up to Rs.
25 lakh - Biometric verification within easypaisa app - No hidden charges on transfers or payments Get ready to make your life easy in so many ways: Transfer money easypaisa app has made sending money easy across Pakistan.
Â· easypaisa account Â· Mobile wallets like JazzCash, SadaPay, NayaPay etc.
Â· WhatsApp Â· CNIC number Â· Raast Transfer Free, instant, and secure transfer from easypaisa app to anyone Save and earn rewards daily Save for your saving goals with savings pocket and earn rewards on timely payments!
Pay Bills Pay all utility bills in one app: Â· electricity (IESCO, PESCO, K-Electric etc.) Â· gas (SNGPL, SSGC) Â· telephone (PTCL, SCO) Â· internet (Nayatel etc.) Â· water (CDA etc.) Â· government fees (e-Challan, FBR - Mobile Tax, etc.) Set reminders to pay bills Get data bundles for Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, TikTok.
25,000 in your account.
Tenor: Day of disbursement to no less than 60 Days Loan Amount: PKR 200 - PKR 25,000 Max APR: 32%-40% (customer is not charged more than 32% - 40% in a year for a loan) Personal Loans are only available to Pakistan Citizens in the territory of Pakistan Example of a loan with easypaisa: Loan Amount: PKR 20,000 Tenor: No less than 60 Days Service Fee: 32% Total service fee: PKR 6,400 Disbursed Amount: 20,000 Repayment Amount: 26,400 Repaying your loan is now more convenient!
Insurance Protect yourself and your loved ones with insurance starting at just Rs.
1 along with hassle-free documentation and one-click subscription!
Order food from restaurants Travel across Pakistan by booking hotels, flights and buses Get movie tickets Any complaints?
You can now update your personal information, file a complaint about a failed bank transfer, cancel a CNIC transaction, or alter the pin on your debit card using easypaisa app.
Follow us facebook.com/easypaisa instragam.com/easypaisa tiktok.com/easypaisa Visit us easypaisa.com.pk Address Head Office 19-C, 9th Commercial Lane, Main Zamzama Boulevard, Phase 5 DHA Karachi Pakistan I am facing problem during the transfer of money.
When I try to transfer money I receive OPT and when I try to write OPT in OPT field I canât write anything.
Version 5.6.8 The developer, Easypaisa bank limited, indicated that the appâs privacy practices may include handling of data as described below.
Data Not Linked to You The following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity: Location Identifiers Usage Data Diagnostics Privacy practices may vary based, for example, on the features you use or your age.
Learn More Accessibility The developer has not yet indicated which accessibility features this app supports.
Learn More
