Yemen's Houthi rebels have released footage of the moment the group's gunmen seized an Israeli-linked cargo ship in a crucial Red Sea shipping route. Key points: - The video shows several Houthi gunmen being dropped onto the cargo ship from a helicopter - The group says it will continue to target ships with links to Israel until it ends its campaign in Gaza - Officials say the ship's 25 crew members have been taken hostage The footage shows several gunmen descending onto the moving ship, Galaxy Leader, by rappelling from a helicopter. The Iran-backed Houthis said it hijacked the ship on Sunday over its connection to Israel, and would continue to target ships in international waters that were linked to or owned by Israelis until the end of Israel's campaign against Hamas in Gaza. "All ships belonging to the Israeli enemy or that deal with it will become legitimate targets," the group said. The gunmen took the ship's 25 crew members hostage, officials said, raising fears that regional tensions heightened over the Israel-Gaza war were playing out on a new maritime front. The ship's owner, Isle of Man-registered Galaxy Maritime Ltd, said the ship is now in the Hodeidah port area in Yemen. "All communications were subsequently lost with the vessel," the company said in a statement. Mohammed Abdul-Salam, the Houthis' chief negotiator and spokesman, said in an online statement that the Israelis only understand "the language of force". "The detention of the Israeli ship is a practical step that proves the seriousness of the Yemeni armed forces in waging the sea battle, regardless of its costs," he added. "This is the beginning." Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's office had blamed the Houthis for the attack on the Bahamas-flagged Galaxy Leader, a vehicle carrier affiliated with an Israeli billionaire. It said no Israelis were on board. The ship's Japanese operator, NYK Line, said the vessel had no cargo at the time of the hijacking. Its crew members are from the Philippines, Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine and Mexico, NYK said. Japan condemned the hijacking. Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno said the Japanese government was doing its utmost for an early release of the crew through negotiations with the rebels, while also communicating with Israel and cooperating with the governments of Saudi Arabia, Oman and Iran. The Houthi group said it was treating the crew members "in accordance with their Islamic values," but did not elaborate on what that meant. Mr Netanyahu's office condemned the seizure as an "Iranian act of terror". The Israeli military called the hijacking a "very grave incident of global consequence". Israeli officials insisted the ship was British-owned and Japanese-operated. However, ownership details in public shipping databases associated the ship's owners with Ray Car Carriers, founded by Abraham "Rami" Ungar, who is known as one of the richest men in Israel. Mr Ungar told The Associated Press he was aware of the incident but couldn't comment as he awaited details. A ship linked to him experienced an explosion in 2021 in the Gulf of Oman. Israeli media blamed it on Iran at the time. Authorities confirmed that the captain and the first mate on the Galaxy Leader were Bulgarians, and Bulgarian police are in touch with their families. The Red Sea, stretching from Egypt's Suez Canal to the narrow Bab el-Mandeb Strait separating the Arabian Peninsula from Africa, remains a key trade route for global shipping and energy supplies. AP/Reuters