Behind him were eight US flags and a blue curtain - a less dramatic backdrop than the red and blue lights of his "Battle for the Soul of the Nation speech at Philadelphia's Independence Hall two months ago, where he spoke on similar themes.
Its effect on an election in which 27 million people have already voted was also uncertain.
A CBS News poll late last month found that 63% of likely Democratic voters say a functioning democracy is a bigger concern than a strong economy, but 70% of Republican voters say the opposite.
He noted that the hammer-wielding assailant had asked "Where's Nancy?
Where's Nancy?" - the same words used by the rioters on January 6.
"We're facing a defining moment.
"But I cannot." The president warned that it is estimated more than 300 election deniers are on the ballot across America this year with an impact he described as damaging, corrosive and destructive.
"As I stand here today, there are candidates running for every level of office in America, for governor, Congress, attorney general, secretary of state, who won't commit to accepting the results of the elections that they're running in.
"That is the path to chaos in America.
It's unprecedented.
It's unlawful.
And it's un-American.
"This is no ordinary year so I ask you to think long and hard about the moment we're in.
In a typical year, we are not often faced with the question of whether the vote we cast will preserve democracy or put it at risk.
In 2020 Trump falsely claimed that mail-in votes tabulated after election day were illegitimate.
Many Americans remain pessimistic about the state of democracy.
An October poll by the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that just 9% of adults think democracy is working "extremely" or "very well", while 52% say it's not working well.
Republicans condemned Wednesday's speech.
In a heartfelt plea, he claimed that Americans can no longer take democracy for granted.
"In our bones we know democracy is at risk, but we also know this: it's in our power to preserve our democracy."
