A list of films produced in the Cinema of Portugal ordered by year of release in the 1990s. For an alphabetical list of Portuguese films see Category:Portuguese films
In the thematic research groups, researchers and doctoral students often do art and design experiments related to interaction design, video game design, sonic interaction design, information visualization, digital visual art and sonic art.
Due to the reaction by Australian film authorities, the film was not submitted for theatrical distribution in New Zealand. However, in April 2012, the DVD version was classified as  "objectionable" (banned) by the New Zealand Office of Film & Literature Classification.
Was ist etwa mit all den Manifesten von Intellektuellen und Schauspielern, die Maßnahmen zum Schutz des Lebens ohne Gegengrund oder Alternativvorschlag der Lächerlichkeit preisgeben?
Oder mit Demonstranten, die zu Tausenden durch die Straßen ziehen, weil sie sich von einer Diktatur gegängelt sehen, deren Beschlüsse komischerweise mittels demokratischer Verfahren getroffen wurden?
Oder mit den Antiflüchtlings-Demonstrationen, die vor ein paar Jahren ihre Hochphase hatten?
FTIs can also be used to inhibit farnesylation in parasites such as trypanosoma brucei and malaria. Parasites seem to be more vulnerable to inhibition of farnesyltransferase than humans are. In some cases, this may be because they lack geranylgeranyltransferase I. Thus, it may be possible for the development of antiparasitic drugs to 'piggyback' on the development of FTIs for cancer research.
Man möchte weniger vorsichtig ergänzen: Was verrät es über das Ideal der Zivilgesellschaft selbst, dass Gut und Böse hier plötzlich so nahe beieinanderliegen?
After Hitler and the Nazi Party came to power on 30 January 1933, the SS was considered a state organization and a branch of the government. Law enforcement gradually became the purview of the SS, and many SS organizations became de facto government agencies.
Gaborone United were the defending champions but were eliminated by BDF XI in the quarterfinals. Orapa United went on to win the tournament, making them the first ever northern team to win the Mascom Top 8 Cup.
Ellis is a philanthropist, donating almost all of her royalties on her books to such organizations as "Canadian Women for Women in Afghanistan" and UNICEF. Due to this work, she has been threatened by the Taliban.
Ellen J. Kennedy is the founder and Executive Director of World Without Genocide, a human rights organization headquartered at Mitchell Hamline School of Law, St. Paul, MN.
Lake joined the Washington Huskies staff in 2014 as a defensive backs coach under head coach Chris Petersen. This was his second stint at the school after serving one year under Keith Gilbertson in 2004. In 2016, he was promoted to co-defensive coordinator. On December 2, 2019, Petersen announced he would step down as Washington's head coach at the end of the 2019 season and Lake would be his successor.
Trotzdem versucht die Öffentlichkeit, es tunlichst zu vermeiden, Bewegungen wie "Querdenken" den Ehrenwimpel "Zivilgesellschaft" anzuhängen.
The organ of the church was made by Friedrich Weigle in 1899. It has 43 stops and 3 keyboards, as follows:
On the day before the competition, the bus operators are required to inspect an inspection bus and find eight planted mechanical defects, as well as one planted security-related defect. The mechanical defects can appear in areas such as flooring and seats; the security-related defect may consist of an "abandoned" briefcase or package.
Rice would finish the year with 1,176 yards and 8 touchdowns passing and 700 yards and 9 touchdowns rushing.
Newington High School is a public high school located in Newington, Connecticut, on Route 174/Willard Avenue.  Its address is 605 Willard Avenue.  All students in the town of Newington seeking a public high school education attend Newington High School.
In diesem Sinne integriert es auch Jürgen Habermas in seine Demokratietheorie, die dem bundesrepublikanischen Selbstverständnis auf die eine oder andere Weise in Fleisch und Blute übergegangen ist: "Die Zivilgesellschaft setzt sich aus jenen mehr oder weniger spontan entstandenen Vereinigungen, Organisationen und Bewegungen zusammen", die "die gesellschaftlichen Problemlagen in den privaten Lebensbereichen finden, aufnehmen, kondensieren und lautverstärkend an die politische Öffentlichkeit weiterleiten".
There are also two bonuses in "The Hidden Door" that are only available after the player finds one unique code each in the game's predecessor and sequel. Other bonuses include a soundtrack, cut-scenes, soundbites, character profiles, and scenes from the game.
Upstream by Roswell Weidner, 1979, pastel on paper. Collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
After playing for Rayo's B-team Willy joined Real Betis, representing the latter's C and B-teams. On 5 August 2011, he signed for CF Villanovense in the third division, after impressing on a trial basis.
During this time he was made Chairman of the Young Diplomats Association of Paris. He returned to Pretoria in 1972 and was Training Officer with the Department. He authored the book "Training for the Diplomatic Service".
Both companies were engaged in the protection of the Dakota frontier towns while Generals Henry H. Sibley and Alfred Sully, with regiments of infantry and cavalry from Minnesota, Iowa and Nebraska, sought out the hostile Indians throughout the territory. The two companies were split into detachments for use in the several settlements.
For December 15th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on December 2.
With Federation, in 1901, tariffs and duties between the colonies were abolished and the matter of import protection came one for the new Commonwealth of Australia to decide at a national level. With the election of a Protectionist minority government in the new Australian House of Representative, Sandford became optimistic that protection for the iron and steel industry would be forthcoming.
Plants of South American origin came to dominate the tropical lowlands of Central America, as did South American freshwater fish and invertebrates. 95% of Central American freshwater fish are South American in origin, with only the Tropical gar (Atractosteus tropicus), three clupeids (Dorosoma), a catostomid (Ictiobus), and an ictalurid (Ictalurus) of North American origin.
Daher auch ihr süßer Nachhall: Politische Selbstorganisation jenseits der etablierten Institutionen gilt als Wert an sich, solange man beim Staat die Macht (und den Machtmissbrauch) vermuten darf.
DNA polymerase adds nucleotides to the three prime (3')-end of a DNA strand, one nucleotide at a time. Every time a cell divides, DNA polymerases are required to duplicate the cell's DNA, so that a copy of the original DNA molecule can be passed to each daughter cell. In this way, genetic information is passed down from generation to generation.
Staat bedeutet in letzter Konsequenz Machtmissbrauch, Zivilgesellschaft edle Gesinnung - diese eingeübte Asymmetrie erklärt die Abneigung, Bewegungen wie "Querdenken" in den Bereich der Zivilgesellschaft aufzunehmen.
Wäre das nicht der Ritterschlag für eine höchst gefährliche Gruppierung?
