Bridges SMS interviewed H.E.
Kazuya Nashida, Ambassador of Japan to Thailand and H.E.
Singtong Lapisatepun, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Thailand for a deeper dive into the relationship between the two countries.
Here are some key insights.
Kazuya Nashida, Ambassador of Japan to Thailand Can you tell us more about the history of relations between Japan and Thailand?
The relationship between Thailand and Japan is actually much longer than 135 years, unofficially.
I'd say it's more than 600 years.
Among the ASEAN and other Asian countries, Thailand has the longest history of friendship with Japan, and it is also the largest base for the Japanese community.
We have nearly 100,000 Japanese nationals living here.
In China, Vietnam, and Indonesia we are not in the number one; Thailand is a special partner for us.
Okay, talking of 135 years, we'd like to continue the current good relations with Thailand-not only in economic terms but in other aspects, as well.
Thailand is an equal partner for Japan.
So, we will strive to develop together.
To achieve this, we will continue to cooperate, hand-in-hand as equal partners.
That is, I think the key word is co-creation-to create together.
What milestones come to mind, when we talk of bilateral relations between Japan and Thailand?
Although I only assumed my post here in December 2019, I can say that I do love it here.
I had been to Thailand many times before, but only as a visiting tourist.
However, after having lived here, I was so amazed that there are so many visitors coming from Japan, and so many Thai people going to Japan, as well.
The cultural exchange is so significant.
The last two years have actually been very quiet, activity-wise, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
But, while there have not been many visits since the start of the pandemic, Minister Hagiuda, the minister of METI (Ministry of Trade and Industry) came here in January, after a two-year absence of any inter-ministerial level visit to Thailand.
Unlike his previous visits, which were mainly for international conferences such as ASEAN meetings, PM Kishida's recent visit was had a bilateral agenda.
The Prime Minister of Thailand went to Japan in May, as well.
In the same month, the highest leaders of both countries exchanged visits.
This is very significant, and now that COVID restrictions have eased, we anticipate more visits, moving forward.
As I said earlier, we look forward to achieving more milestones and to continuing our cooperation in various sectors.
For instance, we have created a manufacturing hub in Thailand; 80% of the market share in the automotive industry is comprised of Japanese car companies, and almost all manufacturers are active here.
And they also export all over the world.
However, there are changes underway.
Thailand is no exception from the global push to more environmentally responsible options, so they are now shifting progressively to Electric Vehicles (EV).
We need to respond to the requirements of Thailand, in this industry, and in various others.
What opportunities do you see for continued cooperation and collaboration between Japan and Thailand?
Aside from the areas I mentioned above, there is also room to collaborate for advancements in agriculture-for example, introducing the use of IoT technology within the agricultural sector.
We also see the opportunity, as well as the need, to develop human resources, especially among the younger work force.
This is something we need, from now on, for even stronger and better cooperation between two countries, moving forward.
In the arena of continued cultural exchange, Japanese culture is already very well accepted in Thai society.
Just as an example, we have more than 4,000 Japanese restaurants here in Thailand.
We need to always focus on finding and creating opportunities to continue our efforts to share our Japanese culture throughout Thailand, especially with the Thai youth.
And also to continue learning and growing in the aspect of Thailand's rich culture, as well.
Our relations with Japan date back much longer than 135 years.
We've had trade relations with Japan from the Edo Period, and even as far back as the Ayutthaya Period, more than 600 years ago.
But of course, formal diplomatic relations were established in 1887.
In September this year, we will celebrate the 135th anniversary.
Since this establishment, Thailand and Japan have enjoyed very good diplomatic relations; we've never had any problem with each other.
So far, this has been a year of numerous high-level exchange visits-the past two years, COVID-19 prevented such visits.
During the visit of Prime Minister Kishida to Thailand in May 2022, both he and Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha were pleased with the development of Thailand-Japan relations.
On the occasion of the 135th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations, the two leaders saw merit in considering the elevation of the bilateral relations from a Strategic Partnership to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.
Furthermore, since Thailand is the host of the APEC, Prime Minister Kishida reaffirmed his readiness to visit Thailand to attend the APEC Economic Leaders Week in November.
With regard to people exchange, both countries and our people have a very good friendship and very cordial relations.
Thai people love Japan; they are waiting for the reopening of the borders, after COVID-19, to visit Japan and enjoy the scenery, especially to see snow, because we don't have snow in Thailand.
Japanese people also love Thai culture and Thai food.
Before COVID-19, 1.8 million Japanese visited Thailand.
We all love each other.
You may have also heard about the Thai Festival.
For many years in the past, we've had a Thai Festival at Yoyogi Park in Tokyo; but with the pandemic, we had to cancel that festival.
So, I think within these contexts, on all levels, we see the relations between the two countries growing even stronger and closer.
What are some of the recent milestones you can point to, within this diplomatic relationship?
The exchange of visits between the two leaders in May 2022 is a recent milestone.
Furthermore, the visit of Prime Minister Kishida to Thailand to attend the APEC Meeting in November will also be a significant milestone in the Thailand-Japan relationship.
I believe that from now on the exchanges of visit between the two countries will be more and more.
Five years ago, my predecessor started the Thailand-Japan Friendship Cup, presenting a trophy for the winner of the sumo tournament in Tokyo.
Now , we are going to expand this cup, not only for the tournaments in Tokyo, but also for the ones in Nagoya, Osaka and Fukuoka.
This year, we will be able to cover all six tournaments throughout the year.
We will also make the trophy more Thai, in character, in the shape of an elephant, which also reflects our Chiang Rai elephant project in the northern part of Thailand.
And we will also have one big elephant statue to be presented to the Nittaiji Temple in Nagoya, which is deeply rooted in Thai culture and historical ties with Japan.
In 1900, our King Rama V gifted the Japanese Buddhist temple with Buddha relic that has since been enshrined in the Nittaji Temple.
A statue of King Rama V is also situated there.
I would also like to mention a milestone of cooperation, related to Japan's KOSEN system and their technical colleges.
In Bangkok, we have already established two centers that train technical personnel in the Japanese KOSEN way.
Japan is a leading investor; they have huge investments in Thailand.
Prime Minister Kishida visited one of these KOSEN-type institutes in Thailand early this year, in May.
How do you feel the relationship between Thailand and Japan is evolving?
Japan has become the biggest in
