Four people died and 64 were arrested as protesters forced their way into the building.
Hello and welcome to Al Jazeera's continuing coverage of the fallout from the chaos at the Capitol in Washington, DC.
This is Tamila Varshalomidze taking over from Kate Mayberry.
James watched on television as the events took place, and on Thursday wondered what would have happened if the intruders had been mostly Black.
"We live in two Americas," James said, following the Lakers' 118-109 loss to the San Antonio Spurs.
Erdogan extended his condolences to families of those killed during riots in Capitol Hill, wishes recovery to injured.
FBI offers reward for details of those behind Washington pipe bombs The FBI is offering a reward of up to $50,000 for information on the individuals responsible for placing pipe bombs in the committee headquarters of the key US political parties in the capital, the agency said.
Many law enforcement agencies received reports on Wednesday of two suspected devices, one each at the headquarters of the Republican National Committee and the Democratic National Committee, the FBI said in a statement on Twitter.
"The FBI is offering a reward of up to $50,000 for information leading to the location, arrest and conviction," the agency's Washington field office added.
More here.
And as the mob descended on the building on Wednesday, Justice Department leaders reached out to offer up FBI agents.
The police turned them down both times, according to senior defense officials and two people familiar with the matter.
Police officer dies from injuries sustained in Capitol riot Brian Sicknick, a US Capitol police officer, has died from injuries sustained after supporters of Donald Trump forced their way into the building.
Read more here.
Editorials in Friday's papers, meanwhile, have said the events showed the extent of the divisions within US society and politics.
The Global Times, a tabloid run by the People's Daily, the newspaper of the ruling Communist Party, described the riots as a sign of "internal collapse" that could not easily be reversed.
You can read more on that story here.
Taiwan says US democracy remains 'beacon of hope' Taiwan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has reiterated the territory's support for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris saying the events of the past 36 hours were testament to the "strength & resilience" of democracy in the US.
"The institutions & democratic processes of the US were built to stand the test of time," the ministry said on its official Twitter account.
A senior administration official and a person familiar with the matter told Reuters that the officials who stepped down on Thursday were: Erin Walsh, senior director for African affairs; Mark Vandroff, senior director for defence policy; Anthony Ruggiero, senior director for weapons of mass destruction; and Rob Greenway, senior director for Middle Eastern and North African affairs.
Pompeo defends US after comparisons with 'banana republic' Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has hit back at claims Wednesday's attack on the Capitol showed the US had become a "banana republic".
Chao, DeVos quit in protest against storming of Capitol Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos have resigned from Trump's administration.
"There is no mistaking the impact your rhetoric had on the situation, and it is the inflection point for me," she wrote, adding her resignation was effective from Friday.
My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth orderly and seamless transition of power.
Loeffler concedes to Warnock two days after Georgia Senate race called Georgia Senator Kelly Loeffler, a wealthy businesswoman and ardent Trump supporter, conceded the race against Reverend Raphael Warnock on Thursday.
"I fully intend to stay in this fight for freedom, for our values and for the future of this great country," Loeffler said in a video concession.
Warnock, the son of a sharecropper, never held public office before.
He defeated Loeffler during a runoff race held on Tuesday.
Loeffler was appointed to the seat by Governor Brian Kemp in 2019.
Judiciary committee head calls for Trump's immediate removal President Donald Trump should be impeached and removed from office "immediately", House of Representatives Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler said in a statement on Thursday.
