Your 10 Worst Airport Horror Stories Air travel is hell on earth, but your stories are somehow even worse Read these ten horror stories of everything from getting sent back to the country you came from, to an airport with no water or available power to losing your entire plane. You will never complain about your flight delays again. 10.) 'They Lost The Plane' Not being able to find your car in a parking lot is one thing, a plane though? Let shortyoh tell you. "I arrive at OHare on a flight from BWI with a connection to CMI. I'm getting in at the end of concourse K, the connection is at the end of concourse G. We're late, and I have less than 5 minutes to make the connection (connecting flight is listed as on-time, but still boarding) Crew on the flight from BWI is great and makes the point to insure that those of us with these tight connections are let off first. I haul my ass through that crowded terminal. This was back when I was in shape and could cover a mile in about 5 minutes flat. I get to the gate I'm supposed to be leaving from, and the door's closed. Shit.... wait... sign now says "delayed". Turns out they never started boarding at all... no one has even come to man the gate yet. About half an hour later, someone finally shows up. Turns out our plane isn't here yet. Don't worry, though, its coming, they claim. Half an hour later, they tell us they're not sure where the plane is, but it will be here soon. No biggie, I think. The ORD-CMI route is run all day long with a plane going back and forth. They just don't have a clue where the plane is on its trip inbound, surely.... Still another half hour later, and here comes a plane arriving from CMI. But wait - that's now for the later departure to CMI, that one isn't our plane. They announce again that they aren't sure where our plane is, but it should be here soon. And yet another half hour later or so, with passengers demanding answers, they finally admit: "we've lost the plane". Lost as in crashed? No. THEY LOST A FRIGGIN AIRPLANE! Ok, granted, it was "only" an ATR-72 at ORD, but it was supposed to be coming out of maintenance and somehow they LOST THE FREAKING AIRPLANE! Thankfully about 15 minutes after that, they finally announce that after searching the airport for a few hours, they found the plane and it is being towed to our gate. Now, I've forgotten which aisle I've parked my car in before. But I've never forgotten where I parked a 90 foot long, $25 million 74 passenger aircraft with a 90 foot wingspan." Suggested By: shortyoh 9.) 29 Hour Delay Yes you read that right. Reader Diesel got delayed for 29 hours. "I was in Little Rock, Arkansas flying back to New Orleans, Louisiana, by way of DFW. There was moderate thunderstorms in Dallas at the time of my flight, somewhere around 1 PM. I showed up to the airport at Noon, dropped off my rental car and breezed through security. It seemed like it was going to be a great day of travel. I have never been so wrong. My flight was delayed six times, we finally boarded the plane at 11:30 PM. It was probably an hour or hour and a half flight to Dallas. The flight was going along smoothly until we hit the thunderstorm that had been at Dallas delaying our flight. The plane dropped like a rock for several terrifying seconds. The woman next to me decided to use my arm as her personal stress ball, puncturing the skin everywhere she had fingernails. We finally leveled out but it was like being inside a bucking horse for the next half an hour. Finally, it smoothed out the flight continued and we landed. Never was I so happy to be done with a flight. So, I failed to consider that the flight would land after the connecting flight took off. So, once I arrived, there was no plane for me to catch until the next morning, at about 11 AM. I went to the counter to see if I could get a courtesy hotel stay, since the delay had been for weather, they were going to deny me. One call to customer service later and I was in a hotel for the night. Not a decent hotel, a crappy hotel by the airport strip club kind of hotel(if you travel a lot, you know what I mean) in a room that reeked of smoke and I highly doubt had clean sheets or bedding. I drowned my sorrows in the crappy hotel bar for all of 30 minutes, since that was all the time I had and went to bed. Next day, went to the airport, breezed through security again and yay more delays. Ended up getting delayed five hours so I finally took off at 4 PM, landed in New Orleans at about 5:15, got my luggage and was back home by 6:20 PM. So, my travel time ended up being 29 hours to get from Little Rock to New Orleans. It would have been a 7 hour drive. This story brought to you by United. They know you have a choice when it comes to flying and they wonder why you choose them." Suggested By: Diesel 8.) Four Airports And One Birthday Later Reader Kaufmania, rolls with the back seat down pretending its a shooting brake got to go to four different airports on his birthday. How nice! "Setting -> 7am - Former East Berlin, June 20, 2004. Checking out of my single night stay at some econo-stay type german hotel as I only had to crash one night in Berlin to make my 9:15am flight out of Tegel. But when I go to check out everything goes wrong. The card is at the limit, so the 80Euro bill is not getting paid this morning. Long part of the story short... after some bad noise and exchanging of contact information, and the card itself, I was allowed to be on my way. 8:45am 6/20/2004 - Arrive at Tegel Intl. Fuck, Fuck, Fuck, Fuck... gonna miss my flight! Wheeewww..... flight in delayed. Safe.... 9:15am - Flight still delayed 10am - Flight still delayed 10:30am Boarding! Woot, and we are taxing by 11am, only 1hr and 45 mins late. No explanation given. Sometime after 12pm, 6/20/04 - Land incredibly fast at Schiphol only 45 mins late. Good pilot. Still might make connector to Memphis after a month in Poland. KLM, Northwest & Post 9/11 Airport Security.... I had been in Poland doing research for my masters thesis in chemistry. When in grad school always do as your advisor says - he is more of a mentor than a talking head. These are life skills he is sharing, not just laboratory technique and career advice. Thus when he says, "When you are asked what you were doing in Poland for 4 weeks at the international security check to board, just tell them you were on vacation", you should listen. DO NOT tell them you have been working on an NIH funded research project to develop targeted drug delivery systems to combat cancer. The nice Dutch man will leave his counter and go speak with the man along the wall, ever so nonchalantly against the wall, so that in his Aviators, black suit, and clip board, total sticks out like a cobalt SS at Mustang dyno day. He will then check his clipboard and then look at you... then flip through his clipboard... and LOOK AT YOU! Before the nice Dutch man comes back to his counter and asks what you were doing in Germany. Explain to him you were only in Germany for one night and that you were in Poland, working with chemicals, and science, and government, and arise as much suspension as you possibly can right now! .... Back to the Man in Black along the wall who flips his clipboard and then STARES INTO SOUL thru his aviators. Twice more will I be asked about my time in Germany, which was only one night, before I am allowed to board. The lady in a full burka and three kids made it thru in a 1/5th of the time, I swear. Lesson - Listen to you adviser & lie to airport security. Okay... So not I am on the plane. Alright... just over 10 hours and I will be back in the states, and just one puddle jump to go after that before I am back in good ole Raleigh NC. However soon you realize everyone is on the plane, yet we are not backing away from the terminal. Strange. 10 mins..... 20 mins... I can see the wing and the engines of the DC-10... WTF - the engine is open and people are in it. Fuck. Capt. - "Everyone, we are having some problems..." fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck. But mind you this flight is full. That means there is a lady in her 60s sitting beside you. And she loves to conversate. She love to talk. She loves to tell you the things she knows that the general population is not aware of. In fact.. and this is a direct quote... "You know who invented Saccharine don't you? The God Damn Mormons!" 2 hours later they decide the plan isn't going to fly. I am getting an extra night in Amsterdam on KLM/Northwest's tip. Alas, my card is maxed out and back in Berlin anyway. Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck. 6-21-04 -> My 23rd Birthday!!! As I am waking up in a rather nice hotel on the outskirts of Schriphol I realize all my friends are at my birthday/welcome home party at the Olde Bar in Raleigh. Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck. Everyone is up by 5/6am and back at the terminal. We have been told they have fixed the plane and that we are the schedule departure of the day. However, when we get back on the plane something is amiss. I am in the same designated seat, beside the same basket case lady, but this is not the same chair. The entertainment (which are laughable in a DC-10) controls totally different. And believe me I was using them to drown out Saccharine/Mormon lady. This isn't the same plane! Oh you cheeky dutch KLM fuckers. However, TSA regulations still state the luggage already on the other plane but be unloaded, scanned through security, and then RE-SCANNED through security again before being able to be loaded onto the new plane, which they still insist is the same plane. Now since i missed my flight from Memphis to RDU yesterday, KLM/Northwest have arranged for my connector from Memphis to RDU for like Noon CST, no charge. Much respect or so I thought. WE STILL AT THE TERMINAL FOR ANOTHER 2 HOURS WHILE THEY DO THE BAGGAGE!!!! Which everyone can see being done. But remember, it is the same plane. We land in Memphis... fucking Memphis Intl. Airport.....(ever been there? then you know) 45 mins late for my co