It named the vessels attacked as Unity Explorer, Number 9 and Sophie II.
A spokesperson for the group's military said the two ships were targeted after they rejected warnings, without elaborating.
The US military said the Carney shot down two drones as it helped the commercial vessels.
It said the attacks were a threat to international commerce.
Israeli military spokesperson R Adm Daniel Hagari said the ships had "no connection to the state of Israel".
They are not thought to have inflicted any serious damage.
Separately, a US airstrike killed five Iraqi militants near the northern city of Kirkuk as they prepared to launch explosive projectiles at US forces in the country, three Iraqi security sources said, identifying them as members of an Iran-backed militia.
A US military official confirmed a "self-defence strike on an imminent threat" that targeted a drone staging site near Kirkuk on Sunday afternoon.
A statement by the Islamic Resistance in Iraq, an umbrella group representing several Iraqi armed factions with close ties to Tehran, said five of its members had been killed, and vowed retaliation against US forces.
Earlier on Sunday, the US military official said US and international forces were attacked with multiple rockets at the Rumalyn landing zone in north-eastern Syria, but there were no casualties or damage to infrastructure.
Iraqi armed groups have claimed more than 70 such attacks against US forces since 17 October over Washington's backing of Israel in its bombardment of Gaza.
The group claimed it was owned by Israel but there was no immediate evidence to support this.
A week later, towards the end of November, a US warship, the USS Mason, seized five attackers who had tried to take control of the Central Park, a commercial tanker that had been carrying a cargo of phosphoric acid.
The body called on vessels in the vicinity to exercise caution.
At the time, the US said the missiles were "potentially heading towards Israel" as justification for its action.
Reuters contributed to this report
