It was literally out of the blue when the first wave of enemy aircraft arrived at 7:48 local time, December 7, 1941.
In the center of the Japanese flight path, sailors and Marines aboard the USS Oklahoma fought back furiously.
She didn't have a chance.
The damage was catastrophic.
Nine cruisers, destroyers, and other ships were damaged, and another two sunk.
Tapping could be heard as holes were drilled to get to those trapped inside.
14 Marines and 415 sailors lost their lives onboard Oklahoma, either immediately or in the days and weeks to come.
Bulkhead markings later revealed that at least some of the doomed lived on in that pitch black, upside-down hell, waiting for rescue that would come too late.
USS Arizona remains on the bottom, a monument to the event and to the 1,102-honored dead who remain entombed within her hull.
Repairs were prioritized, and USS Oklahoma was beyond repair.
She, and her dead, would have to wait.
The extraordinarily difficult salvage at last began in March of 1943.
That May, the decks of USS Oklahoma once again saw the light of day.
At last fully righted, the ship was now 10 feet below water.
A problem even larger than those torpedo holes were the gaps between hull plates, caused by the initial capsize and righting operations.
Divers stuffed kapok in the gaps as water was pumped out.
Individual divers spent 2-3 years on the Oklahoma salvage job.
Underwater arc welding and hydraulic jet techniques were developed during this period and remain in use to this day.
1,848 dives were performed for a total of 10,279 man hours under pressure.
For all that, no military and only one civilian diver lost his life, that, when his air hose became severed.
Twenty 10,000 gallon per minute pumps operated for 11 hours straight.
Oklahoma entered dry dock the following month, a total loss to the American war effort.
The battered hulk left Pearl Harbor for the last time in May 1947, headed for a scrapyard in San Francisco bay.
She never made it.
Taken under tow by the ocean-going tugs Hercules and Monarch, the three vessels entered a storm some 540 miles east of Hawaii.
Despite her massive engines, Hercules was being dragged astern, hurtling past Monarch, herself swamped at the stern and being dragged backward at 17mph.
Fortunately for both tugs, skippers Kelly Sprague of Hercules and George Anderson of Monarch had loosened the cable drums connecting 1,400-foot tow lines to Oklahoma.
Monarch's line played out and detached.
Ordered in March 1911 and launched three years later, the 583' Nevada-class battleship USS Oklahoma was designed to fight at the most extreme ranges expected by gunnery experts.
Commanded by Charles B.
Notable among her exploits of WW1 were the memorable fist fights crew members got into with Sinn Féin members in Berehaven, County Cork, and casualties sustained during the 1918-19 flu pandemic.
Oklahoma was dispatched to Europe in 1936 to evacuate American civilians during the Spanish civil war.
Of the 429 killed, 394 were buried as unknown persons.
Since 2015, advances in forensic science and dna technology have led to the identification of 346.
The final resting place of the USS Oklahoma remains, a mystery.
