Joe Biden has issued a rallying cry for the preservation of democracy and a dark warning that America could face political violence as it barrels toward next week's midterm elections.
The US president used a primetime address on Wednesday to argue that his predecessor Donald Trump's "big lie" about the 2020 election being stolen has become "an article of faith" in the extreme wing of the Republican party.
Biden delivered his address to supporters under a painted ceiling in an ornate room at Washington's Union Station, which is within sight of the US Capitol that was stormed on January 6 last year by a furious mob of Trump supporters.
Behind him were eight US flags and a blue curtain - a less dramatic backdrop than the red and blue lights of his "Battle for the Soul of the Nation speech at Philadelphia's Independence Hall two months ago, where he spoke on similar themes.
A CBS News poll late last month found that 63% of likely Democratic voters say a functioning democracy is a bigger concern than a strong economy, but 70% of Republican voters say the opposite.
Where's Nancy?" - the same words used by the rioters on January 6.
Trump's false claims about a stolen election have "fuelled the dangerous rise of political violence and voter intimidation over the past two years", Biden said.
"We're facing a defining moment.
We must with one overwhelming, unified voice speak, as a country, and say there's no place for voter intimidation or political violence in America." The midterms will determine control of Congress and mark the first nationwide test of American democracy since Trump lost the White House and his supporters laid siege to the Capitol.
"I wish I could say the assault on our democracy had ended that day," Biden remarked.
"As I stand here today, there are candidates running for every level of office in America, for governor, Congress, attorney general, secretary of state, who won't commit to accepting the results of the elections that they're running in.
It's unprecedented.
It's unlawful.
As I've said before, you can't love your country only when you win." He called on voters to reject candidates who have denied the results of the vote which even Trump's administration declared to be free of any widespread fraud or interference, urging them to "think long and hard about the moment we are in".
In 2020 Trump falsely claimed that mail-in votes tabulated after election day were illegitimate.
"He has abused his power and put the loyalty to himself above loyalty to the constitution.
The silence is complicity." He described those who are willing to use violence to achieve political ends as a "distinct minority" in America, "but they are loud and they are determined".
Senator Tom Cotton tweeted: "To Biden, 'democracy' means one thing: Democrats having complete power." Ronna McDaniel, chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, said: "Desperate and dishonest.
Joe Biden promised unity but has instead demonized and smeared Americans, while making life more expensive for all.
"While Republicans remain focused on the issues that matter most to voters, Biden and Democrats are flailing in the final days because they have lost touch with the concerns of families struggling to get by." Biden has made the global struggle between democracy and autocracy a defining theme of his presidency.
