She didn't have a chance.
Holes as wide as 40′ were torn into the hull in the first ten minutes of the fight.
The damage was catastrophic.
347 aircraft were damaged, most caught while still on the ground.
159 of those were destroyed altogether.
2,403 were dead or destined to die from the attack, another 1,178 wounded.
Tapping could be heard as holes were drilled to get to those trapped inside.
Only 32 were delivered from certain death.
Bulkhead markings later revealed that at least some of the doomed lived on in that pitch black, upside-down hell, waiting for rescue that would come too late.
The last survivor drew the last such mark on Christmas Eve, 17 days after the attack.
The USS Utah defied salvage efforts.
She, and her dead, would have to wait.
Two pull configurations were used over 74 days, first the configuration below, then direct connections once the hull had achieved 70°.
Individual divers spent 2-3 years on the Oklahoma salvage job.
Underwater arc welding and hydraulic jet techniques were developed during this period and remain in use to this day.
1,848 dives were performed for a total of 10,279 man hours under pressure.
For all that, no military and only one civilian diver lost his life, that, when his air hose became severed.
Bodies were in advanced stages of decomposition by this time, and the oil and chemical-soaked interior was toxic to life.
Most victims were impossible to identify.
Twenty 10,000 gallon per minute pumps operated for 11 hours straight.
On November 3, 1943, the 'Mighty Okie' broke from the bottom and once again floated on her own.
She was stripped of guns and superstructure and sold for scrap on December 5, 1946, to the Moore Drydock Company of Oakland, California.
She never made it.
On May 17, disaster struck.
backward.
Despite her massive engines, Hercules was being dragged astern, hurtling past Monarch, herself swamped at the stern and being dragged backward at 17mph.
Fortunately for both tugs, skippers Kelly Sprague of Hercules and George Anderson of Monarch had loosened the cable drums connecting 1,400-foot tow lines to Oklahoma.
Monarch's line played out and detached.
Commanded by Charles B.
McVay, Jr., father of the ill-fated skipper of the USS Indianapolis Charles Butler McVay III, Oklahoma's role in the Great War was limited, due to a shortage of oil in major theaters of operation.
Notable among her exploits of WW1 were the memorable fist fights crew members got into with Sinn Féin members in Berehaven, County Cork, and casualties sustained during the 1918-19 flu pandemic.
Oklahoma was up-armored in a 1927 - '29 refit.
Oklahoma was dispatched to Europe in 1936 to evacuate American civilians during the Spanish civil war.
Of the 429 killed, 394 were buried as unknown persons.
Since 2015, advances in forensic science and dna technology have led to the identification of 346.
