On rare occasions, the Indian government-which prides itself on visions of universal digital literacy, online services, and biometrical identity schemes-still conducts certain official communications by radiogram.
An operator sitting at a radio transmitter taps out a message, and then a receiver spits out the transmission in another part of the country, generating an instant legal document.
And so it was that on December 31, 2015, the superintendent of the jail in Muzaffarnagar District, Uttar Pradesh, received a copy of a radiogram from India's Ministry of Home Affairs, marked "urgent." The message concerned a particular inmate named Vivek Premi, a local jeweler's son who had recently spent his 22nd birthday behind bars.
In the summer of 2015, Premi had accosted a 42-year-old Muslim laborer named Mohammed Reyaz in the nearby town of Shamli.
Because Reyaz was handling a calf, Premi accused him of plotting to deliver the animal to local butchers.
This counted as a grave allegation: Killing cows is sacrilege to many Hindus and is illegal in Uttar Pradesh.
A large mob formed, smartphones at the ready, as Premi beat the man into semiconsciousness and flogged him with a belt for more than an hour.
"Cow killer!
Cow killer!" Premi shouted like a man possessed.
Before long, the mob overflowed the banks of the physical marketplace, as videos of Premi's public torture of Reyaz went viral on WhatsApp and YouTube.
Shamli and Muzaffarnagar, which sit in a sugarcane-growing and light industrial region about two and a half hours north of New Delhi, rarely command national attention in India.
But when they do, it is often for their communal violence.
Fearing that Premi was about to rekindle more of the same, the government of Uttar Pradesh-which was then controlled by a democratic socialist party-moved to act.
District authorities arrested Premi and invoked a law called the National Security Act, which allows state governments to preemptively detain people who pose a threat to the public order.
(Premi was also charged with rioting, intentionally causing harm, and making insults with an intention to breach peace; Reyaz, who was arrested far more swiftly, was charged with cattle smuggling and animal cruelty.) For months, Premi sat in jail.
But now, with a radiogram from Delhi, Indian prime minister Narendra Modi's central government was stepping in.
As it happens, the street fighters of the Bajrang Dal share a parent organization with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, or BJP.
The radiogram declared that the Home Ministry was "pleased to revoke" the state government's decision to detain Premi, and that the young vigilante "may be released forthwith from the jail unless he is required to be kept in jail for any other case." And so, on the evening of January 15, 2016, a second spectacle played out with Premi at its center, when a crowd began gathering outside the jail in Muzaffarnagar.
More than a hundred men milled around in the dusk, hunching into heavy sweaters to ward off the chill.
The men clutched plastic bags of marigold garlands and chatted excitedly amongst themselves.
Others fiddled with smartphones.
Their ranks included an ultra-right-wing official from the BJP, along with officers from several radical Hindu groups.
Despite the cold, their quiet conversations crackled with energy.
At 6:15, when the steel gates slid open, they burst into cheers.
Barely able to suppress their joy, his acolytes rushed to greet him.
One of them draped a saffron shawl around Premi's shoulders and anointed his forehead with a tilak, the red mark that devout Hindus wear.
"Dekho, dekho koun aayaa!
Hinduon ka sher aaya!" the men chanted.
"Look, look who is here!
It is the lion of the Hindus!" They hoisted him up on their shoulders, showering him with flower petals as they bore him off into the night.
Premi was equal parts bewildered and excited; at first he thought the crowd was someone's wedding procession.
Sitting in his bedroom in Shamli, Premi pushed his SIM card into the small socket of a Lenovo A6000+.
The young vigilante was not particularly fond of social media.
He used Facebook only occasionally, to chat with his cousins on Messenger, and otherwise preferred action in the street.
But as soon as Premi accessed his account, thousands of messages started downloading, along with thousands of notifications and requests.
He wanted to read the messages, but there were too many.
He had to switch it off completely.
Later, he found the same crush of mentions and messages on WhatsApp and Twitter, a platform he had barely ever touched.
It took him a few days to scroll through it all and to process the scope and character of his new fame.
And now the Modi government's decision to free him had brought him back to the national spotlight.
His new fans seemed hungry for more.
"That was my introduction to the power of social media," Premi says.
Despite his initial skepticism toward a medium that was less physical than he preferred, he resolved to seize the momentum.
Shortly after his release, Premi took to Twitter.
"I am back again," he wrote.
"Let me see whose mother's son dares to slaughter cows." By the next year, he had been elevated to the state-level leadership of the Bajrang Dal.
For six years, from 2012 until 2018, I worked as a staff writer for The Hindu, India's second largest English-language newspaper.
At first I was based in New Delhi, the city where I had spent half of my life.
But shortly after Narendra Modi was elected prime minister in May 2014, I decided to take a transfer to western Uttar Pradesh-because I wanted to understand what was really happening beyond the capital's borders.
Polls had favored Modi's chances in the election for some time.
But for many Indians-and perhaps especially those in the liberal, anglophone press-his victory was shocking nonetheless.
For one thing, there was the sheer, unexpected scale of the rout: Modi's coalition won such a commanding majority that the Congress Party, which had ruled India with few interruptions since independence, was driven into near insignificance.
But more than that, it was the underlying truth that was so difficult to absorb.
His career had exhibited a striking coherence, from his childhood wearing the khaki uniform of the RSS youth corps to his years as a full-time organizer for the paramilitary and his work helping to launch the BJP on a tide of communal resentment.
Most of all, Modi had been defined by his early tenure as the chief minister of Gujarat in 2002, when, under his administration, at least 790 Muslims were massacred by Hindu vigilantes in a three-day killing spree, followed by months of unrest.
About 250 Hindus also died in the bloodshed.
But somehow, during his more recent years in Gujarat, Modi had managed to rebrand himself as a sunny, pro-business techno-utopian, an abstemious leader with an intuitive grasp of 21st-century infrastructure and social media.
An unnerving segment of the Indian and international elite seemed to buy this image.
But the even more disturbing implication of Modi's election was that tens of millions of Indians had voted enthusiastically for his original brand: for the virulently Islamophobic, authoritarian rhetoric that his party spewed through lesser officials and, sub rosa, on vast WhatsApp lists.
But to do so, I didn't have to go particularly far.
Beyond its sheer size, it is an important bellwether in the country's fractious democracy.
The state is both the core of India's "Hindu heartland" and also home to an estimated 43 million Muslims, the largest such total in the country.
And the northwestern corner of the state, where I was headed, was a particularly active fault line of sectarian violence and paranoia.
In the summer of Modi's election, for instance, one particular story from the region had become a blockbuster in the Hindi-language press: In the town of Meerut, a group of Muslim men had allegedly kidnapped a young Hindu woman, brought her to a madrassa, gang-raped her, and forced her to convert to Islam.
It was all, the analysis went,
