Summary On March 18, 2016, a group of men murdered two Muslim cattle herders who were on their way to sell bulls at an animal fair in India's Jharkhand state.
The attackers, all linked to a local "cow protection" group, accused Mohammed Mazlum Ansari, 35, and Imteyaz Khan, 12, of selling the cattle for slaughter, then beat them to death and hanged their bodies from a tree.
Imteyaz's father, Azad Khan, said he watched helplessly as the attack took place: "I hid in the bushes when I saw them beating up Imteyaz and Mazlum.
If I stepped out, they would have killed me too.
My son was screaming for help, but I was so scared." Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), since coming to power at the national level in May 2014, have increasingly used communal rhetoric that has spurred a violent vigilante campaign against beef consumption and those deemed linked to it.
Between May 2015 and December 2018, at least 44 people-36 of them Muslims-were killed across 12 Indian states.
Over that same period, around 280 people were injured in over 100 different incidents across 20 states.
Many Hindus consider cows to be sacred and these groups have mushroomed all over the country.
This report details 11 vigilante attacks that killed 14 people and the government response.
It examines the link between cow protection and the Hindu nationalist political movement, and the failure of local authorities to enforce constitutional and international human rights obligations to protect vulnerable minorities.
In almost all of the cases, the police initially stalled investigations, ignored procedures, or even played a complicit role in the killings and cover-up of crimes.
Instead of promptly investigating and arresting suspects, the police filed complaints against victims, their families, and witnesses under laws that ban cow slaughter.
In several cases, political leaders of Hindu nationalist groups, including elected BJP officials, defended the assaults.
In a particularly egregious case of political opportunism, after two people including a police officer were killed in mob violence in December 2018 in Uttar Pradesh state, the chief minister described the incident as an "accident," and then went on to warn, "Illegal slaughtering, and not just cow slaughter, is banned in the entire state." In July 2018, India's Supreme Court issued a series of directives for "preventive, remedial and punitive" measures to address "lynching"-the term used in India for killing by a mob.
While cow protection is an emotional issue for many Hindus, the Supreme Court denounced violent attacks by so-called cow protectors, saying: "It is imperative for them to remember that they are subservient to the law and cannot be guided by notions or emotions or sentiments or, for that matter, faith." Human Rights Watch calls upon national and state governments to enforce the Supreme Court directives; ensure proper investigations to identify and prosecute perpetrators regardless of their political connections; initiate a public campaign to end communal attacks on Muslims, Dalits, and other minorities; reverse policies that are impacting livestock-linked livelihoods, particularly in rural communities; and hold to account police and other institutions that fail to uphold rights because of caste or religious prejudice.
The Politics of Cow Protection Cow slaughter is forbidden in most parts of Hindu-majority India.
However, over the last few decades, Hindu nationalists have led a political campaign complaining that the authorities do not do enough to enforce the ban and stop cattle smuggling.
Since beef is consumed largely by religious and ethnic minorities, BJP leaders, in seeking to appeal to Hindu voters, have made strong statements about the need to protect cows that have enabled, and at times may have incited, communal violence.
According to a survey by New Delhi Television, there was a nearly 500 percent increase in the use of communally divisive language in speeches by elected leaders-90 percent of them from the BJP-between 2014 and 2018, as compared to the five years before the BJP came to power.
In addition to beating up cattle traders and transporters that have caused serious injuries, even fatalities, cow protectors have reportedly assaulted Muslim men and women in trains and railway stations in Madhya Pradesh state, stripped and beat Dalit men in Gujarat, force-fed cow dung and urine to two men in Haryana, raided a Muslim hotel in Jaipur, and raped two women and killed two men in Haryana for allegedly eating beef at home.
In September 2015, a mob killed Mohammad Akhlaq, 50, in Uttar Pradesh state, and critically injured his 22-year-old son, over allegations that the family had slaughtered a calf for beef.
Following public outrage-and because the state was then governed by an opposition party-the police made some arrests including of a local BJP leader's son and relatives.
The suspects' Hindu supporters responded by damaging a police van and other vehicles.
As a result, Akhlaq's family had to leave the village in fear.
More than three years later, the trial has yet to begin.
All of the accused have been released on bail, raising fears among the victims' families.
About 90 percent of these attacks were reported after BJP came to power in May 2014, and 66 percent occurred in BJP-run states.
Muslims were victims in 62 percent of the cases and Christians in 14 percent.
These include communal clashes, attacks on inter-faith couples, and violence related to cow protection and religious conversions.
Maja Daruwala, senior advisor to the civil society organization Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative said, "The obvious impunity for the string of crimes that have taken place, and their hugely shameful valorization by some leaders, is distinctly a strong factor in their continuation." Denying Accountability Since 2014, several BJP-ruled states have passed stricter laws to prohibit the killing of cows and adopted cow protection policies that critics contend are populist gestures to promote Hindu nationalism.
Many of the new legal provisions make cow slaughter a cognizable, non-bailable offense, putting the burden of proof on the accused, in violation of the right to be presumed innocent.
Mrinal Satish, executive director of the Centre for Constitutional Law, Policy, and Governance at National Law University in Delhi, said: In some of these laws where there is a shifting of burden and consequently a presumption of guilt, that should be very rarely used because it curtails fundamental liberties.
The impact that it can have is that they can make certain professions such as that of transporters, butchers, leather workers, susceptible to the criminal process and the process itself ends up being the punishment in most cases.
After Gujarat state amended its cow protection laws in 2017 to increase punishments, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, the minister for home affairs, said, "We have equaled the killing of a cow or cow progeny with the killing of a human being." Numerous policies introduced around cow protection by BJP-ruled state governments have enabled vigilante groups.
Members of cow protection committees-sometimes alongside police-patrol streets and highways at night, stop vehicles, check them for cattle, intimidate drivers, and react with violence if they find cows.
Said Sajjad Hassan, convener of Citizens Against Hate, a collective that documents hate crimes in India: "The police have effectively outsourced the identification and apprehension of the alleged violators of these cow protection laws." In 2016, the Haryana government set up a 24-hour helpline for citizens to report cow slaughter and smuggling, and appointed police task forces to respond to the complaints.
In March 2017, after becoming the BJP chief minister of Uttar Pradesh state, Adityanath, a Hindu cleric, ordered the closure of numerous slaughterhouses and meat shops, mostly run by Muslims.
In Rajasthan, the previous BJP state government opened six gau raksha (cow protection) police posts tasked with curbing cattle smuggling.
These posts have become a hotbed f
