THE Muslims of India face in 2018 a depressing situation not dissimilar to the ones they faced in 1857 and 1947.
The old order was gone and they did not know how to meet the challenges of the new and unfriendly one.
Mohammed Ali Jinnah appointed a moral coward, Chaudhri Khaliquzzaman, as the leader of the Muslims of India in 1947, in preference to the upright Nawab Mohammed Ismail of Meerut.
Khaliquzzaman had a nervous breakdown and left for Pakistan where, in his declining years, he bitterly regretted the Partition of India.
They face discrimination everywhere.
Their standing in national politics is accurately reflected in the results of all the general elections to the Lok Sabha since 1952.
Muslims constitute 10.5 per cent of the population.
In the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled States-Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh-the RSS' political front, the BJP, has not a single Muslim Member of Legislative Assembly.
Official reports tell a sorry tale.
On June 14, 1983, a "High Power Panel on Minorities, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes & Other Weaker Sections" submitted its report in two volumes to the Government of India.
Only one of its seven members was a Muslim, a politician from the Congress, Dr Rafiq Zakaria, who served also as its Secretary.
It is fair to mention that he did his best to ascertain the true state of affairs.
In Chapter 2, on Methodology (page 7), the report reveals: "As we feared, while considerable (though not complete in any way) data was forthcoming in respect of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for whom statutory provisions existed, no such data was available, except in vague and general terms, in respect of the religious minorities.
No Central Government Department or Public Sector Undertaking could enlighten us specifically as to the number of employees belonging to the minorities, nor how much benefits were they deriving from the economic activities.
Next came the "Report of the National Commission for Religious and Linguistic Minorities" in May 2007.
The commission was headed by a Chief Justice of India, Justice Ranganath Misra, who had performed deplorably in every institution he had served and became a Congress politician.
The report has a dissent by the Member-Secretary Asha Das, a former senior bureaucrat, which had statements one would expect only in BJP circles.
Its report, submitted on November 17, 2006, contains a wealth of information.
Muslim recruitment to the police services is as poor as police behaviour towards them in some parts of India.
Political representation Yet, can you name a single political party which voices the Muslims' grievances?
Then, why blame Muslim political parties that do?
Why blame men like Asaduddin Owaisi, MP, for their courageous stand?
There must be a two-track approach-enlist the minorities to the secular cause while convincingly securing redress of their grievances.
Off and on one hears a leader here or there criticising the wrongs.
Sharad Pawar, for example, strongly censured the motivated arrests and prosecutions of Muslims.
One example of the secular parties' indifference will suffice.
On February 12, 2001, Justice Jagdish Bhalla of the Allahabad High Court criticised the State government for not issuing a notification for the trial of two criminal cases after the demolition of the Babri Masjid in order to facilitate an early trial.
In the last 17 years, not one Chief Minister-Mayawati, Mulayam Singh or Akhilesh Yadav-cared to do that.
This is fraught with peril for all in the long run.
A minority community's sense of identity is shaped by its understanding of its history.
Its self-image is influenced, no less, by the image which the majority group in the country has of the minority community and by its understanding of history.
Not seldom, historical perceptions clash.
For long, the alternative to Partition seemed to be constitutional protection.
Experience has demonstrated that constitutional protection without political participation, which alone can enable them to share power, provides no security.
It is not possible to understand the political mind of Indian Muslims today, nor their politics, except against the historical background.
The same holds good for the approach which Indian political parties have adopted towards Muslims.
To anticipate, both have tended to be protectionist.
Participation has been largely formal; empowerment remains a distant goal.
This is to no small extent the result of the political course which Indian Muslims and Indian political parties adopted in the early days of such politics.
The only Muslim League leader who began articulating a strategy in the new situation was H.S.
Suhrawardy, former Premier of Bengal.
His letter to Khaliquzzaman on September 10, 1947, listed the options (Khaliquzzaman, pages 397-399; see box).
As he confessed: "We had not thought about it earlier." One option was "holding fast to the two-nation theory".
Another was to retain "group solidarity" and yet seek friendship with Hindus.
He raised an important question which is relevant still.
At the same time, any attempt to acquire solidarity or strength will raise suspicion in their minds as regards bona fides.
They may refuse to accept you as the League treating with the Congress and in a system of joint electorate will support the breed known as Nationalist Muslims." Several other options were mentioned, only to be dismissed.
Khaliquzzaman was not interested.
Mohamed Raza Khan was a member of the Muslim League's Council since 1943, of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) until 1963 and of the Madras Legislature from 1946 to 1962.
His memoirs, What Price Freedom, published by himself in 1969 from Madras, described the Muslim mood at Partition, the short-sighted policies that the IUML pursued and his own disillusionment.
"Having worked for the creation of Pakistan, they found themselves left without an organisation and leadership, with nobody to guide them.
Mr.
Jinnah left for Karachi to lead the new state.
Most of the top leaders, who were on the League Working Committee and prominent Leaguers in different States, either left for Karachi to build up their own careers, as they felt they had no political future in India, or went into complete retirement.
A fear complex had overtaken the Muslim community throughout the country.
They could not think in terms of their political rights or their material welfare.
All that they wanted was that there should be no communal trouble in their areas.
Less evident, however, are those of political leadership.
It was full of reproach.
A heavy dose of nostalgia was administered in order to instil courage.
Another exercise in providing leadership was Azad's speech at the Indian Union Muslim Conference at Lucknow on December 27, 1947.
Strangely enough, it finds no place in any of the compilations of his speech.
A report in The Times of India of the following day is quoted here.
The Maulana was heard in pin-drop silence.
Muslim leadership was his for the asking.
Muslim politics was clay in his hands to mould as he wished.
"All communal organisations must be liquidated.
Even the Jamiatul-Ulema-e-Hind." Its main task had been to guide the Muslims in the cultural and religious spheres.
But it entered the political field in the cause of Indian nationalism.
It "will have to cease its political activities now that India has achieved liberation".
He declared that any political organisation of the Muslims-and for that matter of any other
