A few months ago, the Indian legislator Pragya Singh Thakur urged Hindus to keep their vegetable knives sharp, as they could come in handy to slaughter the "enemy." She was making a not-so-subtle allusion to Muslims in India, whom she accused of carrying out "love jihad" - a conspiracy theory alleging that Muslim men lure Hindu women into marriage in order to convert them to Islam.
Immediately, the police registered a case against Thakur, who is also the prime suspect in a 2008 terror attack in the city of Malegaon, Maharashtra, which took place in a Muslim cemetery adjacent to a mosque and claimed the lives of six people and injured an additional 100.
She was arrested that year and was granted bail for health reasons in 2017 by the Bombay High Court.
According to Indian law, an individual accused of a crime can participate in elections and take office but cannot if convicted.
In 2019, just before Thakur was elected as a legislator for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - making her the first person accused in a terror case to be fielded as an election candidate by a major political party - she had called Mahatma Gandhi's assassin, Nathuram Godse, a "patriot," forcing her own party to condemn her comments.
However, dozens of women leaders in right-wing Hindu organizations aspire for the kind of popularity enjoyed by Thakur, who is also known as Sadhvi Pragya.
She defeated Digvijay Singh, a veteran politician and two-time chief minister of the state.
Thakur is still under investigation for her involvement in the case, which remains a talking point in the media and among critics of the BJP, but she continues to enjoy popular appeal nonetheless.
With her pixie-cut hairstyle, her occasional appearances in the Indian Parliament on a wheelchair, which reminds her supporters of the alleged "torture" inflicted on her when she was in prison, and her penchant for playing basketball and cricket - which has surprised many, given her "health issues" - often in all-male groups, Thakur embodies a kind of masculinity seldom associated with women in right-wing politics in India.
"She calls a spade a spade.
She is fearless even though she has had to suffer for her honesty," says Chaitra Kundapura, a young activist from the coastal town of Kundapur in the southern state of Karnataka.
Kundapura was referring to the alleged police torture inflicted on Thakur and the political ostracization she was subjected to for years before she made her way into the political mainstream.
Kundapura is a supporter of Hindutva, an ideology that espouses the vision of India as a Hindu nation.
"As a woman who stands for Hindutva, it is very important to be fearless.
The future of Hindutva depends on women," says the slight-framed woman, her eyes widening animatedly as she speaks.
Kundapura sees herself as one of the few women who have actively devoted their lives to Hindutva.
...
Like thousands of other Hindu nationalist leaders, Kundapura believes it is the divine duty of Hindu women to not only give birth to children, who will go on to serve the Hindu rashtra, but also give them the "samskar" or "social values" that will allow them to contribute to the process of nation-building.
Kundapura is not an exception.
Across India, an army of militantly oriented, fiercely independent, yet socially conservative women leaders is fast emerging in Hindu nationalist circles.
These women are ambitious, educated and often economically independent.
Products of a post-liberalization India, they have had greater access to education and jobs than their counterparts in previous generations.
Yet the ideology they espouse and the Hindu nation they envision are deeply conservative and patriarchal.
Its own literature states that the Samiti was formed in 1936 in opposition to the Indian left and the liberal women's movements of the 1930s.
As Hindu nationalism crystallized in the 20th century as an ideology that purportedly sought to preserve Indian traditions in the face of colonialism and Western values and norms, a collective anxiety about the role of women in Hindu society emerged.
"The onus was on the woman to be the flag bearer of morality, purity and chastity.
Only then could an ideal family - and by extension an ideal nation - be formed," writes the journalist and author Akshaya Mukul in "Gita Press and the Making of Hindu India." Works put out by the world's largest publisher of Hindu texts, the Gita Press, which has been publishing extensively on the ideal Hindu dharma (religion), culture and nationalism since 1923, suggested that a woman's non-adherence to these set rules could affect broader Hindu society.
A century later, this conservative worldview of the Hindutva organizations, coupled with the burgeoning ambitions of the women themselves, is leading to a strange and sometimes contradictory kind of women's politics.
Often louder and more militant than their male counterparts, these women are setting the Hindu nationalist agenda in their locales, even as they fight off patriarchies to rise up the political ladder.
Between these conflicting impulses of negotiating their rise in a patriarchal organization and a morphed sense of feminism, a new form of women-led Hindu nationalism is emerging in India.
Kundapura hails from a lower-middle-class family and belongs to a community known as the Other Backward Castes, an official term used to describe communities that are socially disadvantaged in India's rigid caste system.
It was then that Kundapura began thinking about women's freedoms in modern workplaces.
Slowly, in a manner not too different from tensions observed in other traditions around the world where the younger generation must grapple between the old and the new, traditional ideas of society and womanhood began to seem more appealing to the once-ambitious news anchor.
"In these corporate jobs, women are said to be very independent, but they all earn less than their husbands.
...
What will they teach us about equality?" she says, as if mocking all that is perceived to be modern, feminist and Western.
Popular culture from the West, for instance, portrays women as meek damsels in distress or sex symbols meant for the consumption of men, she explained.
"It is popular culture, especially from the West, that has made us believe that women cannot protect themselves," she says.
On the other hand, Hindu nationalist literature, which Kundapura claims to have read extensively, glorifies Hindu goddesses and women of ancient times as being both virtuous and strong - before they were allegedly "corrupted" by invasions, first by Muslim rulers and then by British colonialism.
This appealed to her more.
"A lot of these women who wear Western clothes and call themselves feminist are often catering to the male gaze, and simply want to look desirable for men," she says.
"My dharma teaches me to have a trishul [trident] and fight for myself," she adds, invoking images of the divine symbol commonly used in Hinduism and of Hindu goddesses like Kali and Durga, who are believed to assume wrathful avatars when confronted with injustice.
As such, she believes that the Hindu dharma, from which modern women have alienated themselves, is more empowering for women than Western modernity.
Hindu dharma can be broadly translated as Hindu religion, but its connotations extend beyond institutionalized religion to being a way of life.
Hindu nationalist literature further portrayed the Indian women's movement as "Western" and therefore ill-suited for Hindu women, who must find their voice within the Hindu dharma.
Feminism, in their scheme of things, could destabilize the family unit by instilling individualism in women, making them bad wives and mothers.
But Kundapura's critique goes further.
For her, not only is feminism antithetical to Indian values, but its purported benefits for women are exagger
