Dr.
"They are currently our most vulnerable population, just as this highly transmissible variant is surging across the country," Propst says.
Transcript AMY GOODMAN: Many schools are reopening this week.
We begin today's show looking at the rise of COVID-19 infections in children as the highly contagious Delta variant continues to spread.
This is Dr.
DR.
MARK KLINE: I have to tell you that I am as worried about our children today as I have ever been.
This virus, the Delta variant of COVID, is every infectious disease specialist's and epidemiologist's worst nightmare.
...
So that's where we're going, to Houston, where we're joined by Dr.
Christina Propst.
Dr.
Propst, thanks so much for being with us.
Can you start off by explaining what the Delta variant has to do with this increased number of children being hospitalized?
Why are they so particularly vulnerable right now?
DR.
CHRISTINA PROPST: Right now we are in an unfortunate situation where the Delta virus is prevalent.
The Delta variant of COVID-19 is the prevalent circulating variant in this country.
DR.
CHRISTINA PROPST: Absolutely.
There is a condition, as many people have heard, called long COVID.
It was originally identified in adults, mostly because adults were getting tested.
So, long COVID, now also known as post-acute sequelae of COVID-19, is a condition that can arise weeks to months later and generally involves a constellation of symptoms, including the brain fog many people have heard of, aches, low-grade fevers, a malaise that just won't go away, a lack of energy.
We are seeing that as the incidence among the pediatric population increases, we are starting to see those long COVID cases, so the malaise and fatigue that just does not go away, six, eight, 10 weeks after an acute COVID infection, which might even have been a mild infection.
DR.
CHRISTINA PROPST: It's so frustrating, as a pediatrician and as a parent.
I feel for parents who are making these difficult decisions right now, whether to homeschool.
Many have done away with the plexiglass and some of the other COVID-mitigating modes and modalities in their classrooms.
Our governor, unfortunately, has taken our children's lives and is using it in a political game of chicken.
That's really the best way to describe it right now.
Dallas has followed.
Austin has followed.
Other districts are now starting to try to come up with a virtual option.
Unfortunately, it also includes a huge proportion of our population of school-age children who are eligible, who are between ages 12 and 17.
AMY GOODMAN: Would you say, Dr.
DR.
This will disproportionately affect, in every way, health, mental well-being, education, the most vulnerable students among the most vulnerable of our population.
AMY GOODMAN: Dr.
Dr.
We'll be back with her in a moment.
[break] AMY GOODMAN: "Sea of Tranquility" by Kool & the Gang.
Co-founder Dennis "D.T." Thomas died this week at the age of 70.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
As we talk about children and COVID, we turn to top White House adviser Dr.
DR.
ANTHONY FAUCI: There is a problem with children.
You've got to separate and make sure you get the facts.
But less doesn't mean zero.
