Yemen's Houthi movement said its navy had attacked two ships, Unity Explorer and Number 9, with an armed drone and a naval missile and claimed the vessels were Israeli.
A spokesperson for the group's military said the two ships were targeted after they rejected warnings, without elaborating.
It said the attacks were a threat to international commerce.
Hagari said: "One ship was significantly damaged and it is in distress and apparently is in danger of sinking and another ship was lightly damaged." US Central Command said Unity Explorer is Bahamas-flagged and UK-owned, that Number 9 is Panamanian-flagged, Bermuda- and UK-owned and operated, and Sophie II is Panamanian-flagged.
Yemen's Houthis, who have the backing of Iran, have launched several missile and drone attacks on Israel since the start of the war in Gaza on 7 October.
They are not thought to have inflicted any serious damage.
More recently, the rebel group has stepped up its targeting of commercial vessels sailing in the Red Sea, which lies south of the Suez Canal, a strategic naval route between Europe and Asia and east Africa.
A statement by the Islamic Resistance in Iraq, an umbrella group representing several Iraqi armed factions with close ties to Tehran, said five of its members had been killed, and vowed retaliation against US forces.
The group had claimed several attacks against US forces throughout Sunday.
Iraqi armed groups have claimed more than 70 such attacks against US forces since 17 October over Washington's backing of Israel in its bombardment of Gaza.
The group claimed it was owned by Israel but there was no immediate evidence to support this.
On Sunday, maritime security specialists told Reuters that an unnamed bulk carrier ship had been hit by at least two drones in the Red Sea.
One company, Ambrey, said another container ship had reportedly suffered damage from a drone attack about 63 miles north-west of the northern Yemeni port of Hodeidah.
The body called on vessels in the vicinity to exercise caution.
In mid-October, the USS Carney shot down three ground-launched missiles as well as several drones that were fired by Houthi militants, the Pentagon said.
Reuters contributed to this report
