Why is that?
Voters are mature here.
They know what decisions to take.
There are no corruption charges against us.
The people of Karnataka are happy with us.
There is absolutely no anti-incumbency.
There is no pressure from the high command, or anywhere else.
Law and order is very good in Karnataka.
Last year and this year, we are No 1 in the country.
They are making wild allegations.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to be the BJP's chief campaigner in Karnataka.
His popularity across the country, including Karnataka, is high.
How will you counter him?
No doubt the Prime Minister is a popular man.
Is this election going to be a battle between you and Yeddyurappa, you and Modi, or between Rahul Gandhi and Narendra Modi?
They (BJP) held power in the state and at the Centre.
Despite all this, we came closer...
The BJP has announced that it will not have any pre-poll alliance with the Janata Dal (Secular).
There will be no pre-poll alliance of any party in Karnataka.
Which party do you consider your main rival - the BJP or the JD(S)?
The BJP is there in coastal Karnataka, in Mumbai-Karnataka, in Hyderabad-Karnataka.
A controversy has erupted over your government's decision to withdraw cases against minorities, which you subsequently revised.
What was the rationale behind it?
It's not about withdrawing cases against minorities.
On the basis of that report, the home department called for some details.
We have withdrawn cases against farmers, minorities and against Kannada associations.
It's not that we are withdrawing cases only against minorities.
It's totally incorrect.
No, that's the allegation deliberately made by the BJP.
We don't appease any community, class or religion.
But what about all those visits by Rahul Gandhi to temples?
Let him visit.
Is he not a Hindu?
A Hindu can visit a temple, and also a mosque.
A Christian can also visit temples.
A man who respects all religions will visit all temples, all churches and all mosques.
They say the talk about Karnataka asmita or pride, a separate flag for Karnataka, compulsory Kannada in schools, removal of Hindi signage from metro stations, all point to that.
It doesn't mean that we hate Hindi or English, or any other language.
But Kannada should have the pride of place in Karnataka.
It is the paramount language.
There is no provision in the Constitution prohibiting the state from having a separate flag.
In America, each state has its own flag though it is a union of States.
Why the talk about a separate religion for Lingayats?
There are other groups among Lingayats...
Afterwards, this issue was taken up by different factions of the Lingayat community.
I got five petitions from them.
I referred these petitions to the state minority commission, which set up an expert committee headed by a retired high court judge.
They are looking into the matter.
The government has nothing to do with this.
Till last August, we've already spent ₹45,000 crore.
I didn't make a statement that it was only for upper Krishna project - it was for all pending irrigation projects.
The inter-state water dispute is between states, not between Yeddyurappa and (Goa CM Manohar) Parrikar.
On September 1, 2016, the tribunal made a suggestion for a settlement outside the tribunal, to which all advocates appearing for the states agreed.
How do you look at the Centre's move to constitute a commission to examine the issue of sub-categorisation of the Other Backward Classes?
There is a permanent backward class commission in every state.
Let them take all chairpersons into confidence.
They have to get all facts and figures from the states.
DK Singh was part of Hindustan Times' nationwide network of correspondents that brings news, analysis and information to its readers.
He no longer works with the Hindustan Times.
