Three commercial ships in the Red Sea were struck by ballistic missiles fired from Houthi-controlled Yemen on Sunday and a U.S.
warship shot down three drones in self-defense during the hourslong assault, the U.S.
military said.
Responsibility for the attack was claimed by the Houthi rebels, who are backed by Iran.
The attacks marked an escalation in a series of maritime attacks in the Mideast linked to the Israel-Hamas war, as multiple vessels found themselves in the crosshairs of a single Houthi assault for the first time in the conflict.
In a statement, U.S.
The guided missile destroyer USS Carney (Photo by FELIX GARZA/US NAVY/AFP via Getty Images) According to Central Command, the USS Carney, a Navy destroyer, detected a ballistic missile fired from Houthi-controlled areas of Yemen at the Bahamas-flagged bulk carrier Unity Explorer.
The missile hit near the ship.
Shortly afterward, the Carney shot down a drone headed its way, although it's not clear if the destroyer was the target.
The drone was also launched from Yemen.
About 30 minutes later, the Unity Explorer was hit by a missile, and while responding to the distress call the Carney shot down another incoming drone.
Central Command said the Unity Explorer reported minor damage from the missile.
Two other commercial ships, the Panamanian-flagged bulk carriers Number 9 and Sophie II, were both struck by missiles.
The Number 9 reported some damage but no casualties, and the Sophie II reported no significant damage.
While sailing to assist the Sophie II, the Carney shot down another drone heading in its direction.
The drones did no damage.
It hasn't been damaged in any of the incidents and no injuries have been reported on board.
Gen.
Saree did not mention any U.S.
warship being involved in the attack.
"The Yemeni armed forces continue to prevent Israeli ships from navigating the Red Sea (and Gulf of Aden) until the Israeli aggression against our steadfast brothers in the Gaza Strip stops," Saree said.
"The Yemeni armed forces renew their warning to all Israeli ships or those associated with Israelis that they will become a legitimate target if they violate what is stated in this statement." 02 Maxar medium view satellite imagery off the southern Red Sea near Hodeida, Yemen that shows the recently seized Galaxy Leader ship that was captured by Houthi fighters on November 19th.
Houthi fighters also take credit for a Sunday attack that inc Saree also identified the first vessel as the Unity Explorer, which is owned by a British firm that includes Dan David Ungar, who lives in Israel, as one of its officers.
The second was a Panamanian-flagged container ship called Number 9, which is linked to Bernhard Schulte Shipmanagement.
Managers for the two vessels could not be immediately reached for comment.
The Houthis have launched a series of attacks on vessels in the Red Sea, as well as launching drones and missiles targeting Israel.
The U.S.
02 Maxar medium view satellite imagery off the southern Red Sea near Hodeida, Yemen that shows the recently seized Galaxy Leader ship that was captured by Houthi fighters on November 19th.
Houthi fighters also take credit for a Sunday attack that inc Global shipping had increasingly been targeted as the Israel-Hamas war threatens to become a wider regional conflict - even as a truce briefly halted fighting and Hamas exchanged hostages for Palestinian prisoners held by Israel.
However, the collapse of the truce and the resumption of punishing Israeli airstrikes and its ground offensive there had raised the risk of the seaborne attacks resuming.
In November, the Houthis seized a vehicle transport ship also linked to Israel in the Red Sea off Yemen.
Missiles also landed near another U.S.
warship last week after it assisted a vessel linked to Israel that had briefly been seized by gunmen.
However, the Houthis had not directly targeted the Americans for some time, further raising the stakes in the growing maritime conflict.
In 2016, the U.S.
launched Tomahawk cruise missiles that destroyed three coastal radar sites in Houthi-controlled territory to retaliate for missiles being fired at U.S.
Navy ships at the time.
