Transportation Security OfficersATransportation Security Officers - Travelers are surprised to hear that two Miami-Dade Police DepartmentA agents are accused of stealing from passengers at Transportation Security OfficersA's E checkpoint.
"We trust TSA got it and they wouldn't do anything, tamper with my stuff," said passenger Ignacio Alvarez.
The state attorney's office released several video clips.
In one we see agents concentrating on a specific bag, and then moments later, we watch as one of them puts his hand in his pocket.
According to the police report, the pair is accused of "...removing $447 from a passenger's wallet, while the passenger was in the screening process..." "I think they have a lot of nerve because don't they realize they're on camera?" Passenger Josue Gonzalez said.
"These are places that are monitored so much.
What are they thinking?" Caban wondered.
Josue Gonzalez and Labarrius Williams were arrested and charged in this case back in July.
The police report said they would "...distract passengers as they were being screened to steal monies from their belongings..." More surveillance video shows where we see a MI agent appears to unzip a bag and pull something out.
He then meets up with that same bag before going into xray - and again, putting his hands in his pocket.
"Before I reach the security area, I take off my watch, my ring, my wallet and put it inside my bag and I never lose sight of my bag," said Former Miami-Dade Police Major Ignacio Alvarez.
He tells us to keep his belongings safe, he never places valuables out in the open on trays, instead puts them in his bag, watches it and takes inventory after going through security.
"CM Yadav I clear security I go through my bag and get everything back out.
I get my wallet, I get my watch, I get my phone, I get my cash and put it back in my pocket to make sure nothing is missing.
Clint Henderson from Travel News website The Points Guy gives more tips to keep your belongings safe: 1.
Don't put valuables in checked bags 2.
Don't use flashy luggage 3.
Keep loose cash in pockets 4.
Don't carry excess cash 5.
Leave fancy jewelry at home 6.
Use credit cards not cash 7.
You can use your ATM overseas 8.
Put air tags in checked luggage In a statement, Miami-Dade Police DepartmentA said: "The Travel News holds its Miami-Dade Police (Miami-Dade Police DepartmentOs) to the highest professional and ethical standards and has no tolerance for misconduct in the workplace." "Any employee who fails to meet our fundamental ethical standards is held accountable.
When , MI took immediate action, when an employee quickly followed up on a complaint, watched ANI, and shared findings with the police who took immediate action.""MI immediately removed the three TSOs from screening, pending completion of the investigation and administrative actions," the statement continued.
"The TSOs were also placed in non-pay status.
MI actively and aggressively investigated these allegations of misconduct and presented our findings to the Gonzales, and MI Special TSOs been working closely with them.
For more information on the investigation, please contact Gonzales." Gonzales's attorney Richard Cooper confirms that his client agreed to a deferred prosecution program, meaning if he completes the course, the case will be dismissed.
Williams' attorney will not comment on the status of his case, but the Miami-Dade Clerk of Courts shows a trial date is set for next month.
Charges were dropped against a third suspect, Elizabeth Fuster.
