In January, the State Bank of Pakistan issued no-objection certificates (NOCs) to the establishment of five digital banks in Pakistan, part of the SPB's newest initiative to boost both financial inclusion and the broader economy. Twenty banks applied for the licences. The winners were existing financial institutions and new ventures from a broad range of backgrounds: UAE-based bank Mashreq; Pakistani e-money institution Easypaisa; two new joint ventures Hugo Bank and KT Bank; and Raqami, a new venture backed by the Kuwait Investment Authority. The NOCs permit the banks to set up pilot digital banking products for retail and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Once the pilots are approved and the bank has operated for a certain length of time, the NOC offers a pathway to apply for a full commercial banking licence. The initiative is positive news at a challenging time for Pakistan. The digital banking licences are very exciting Humayon Dar, Cambridge Institute of Islamic Finance The country's ministry of finance is still tackling the impact of Covid, a devalued rupee, an energy crisis and devastating floods earlier in the year that are estimated to have caused damage worth around 10% of the country's GDP, according to Moody's. Inflation was running at a 50-year high of 31.5% in February. By mid March, the country was close to signing agreement on $1.1 billion of funding from the IMF, part of a $6.5 billion bailout package that was approved in 2019. China has also agreed to refinance $2 billion of bilateral lending. One of the IMF's conditions for further lending is that the country raise over PRs170 billion ($613.17 million) in new taxation through a supplementary budget. Given the largely informal and undocumented nature of Pakistan's economy, this will be a challenge - and is why boosting financial inclusion is so important. On announcing the granting of the NOCs, the SBP said it expects the successful bidders to "promote financial inclusion by providing affordable/cost effective digital financial services including credit access to unserved and underserved segments of the society." Pakistan has a population of 230 million people with low levels of financial inclusion (estimated between 21% and 30%), meaning there is a big untapped market for the new digital banks. But it will not be as easy to penetrate. Despite regular initiatives and interventions by Pakistan's state bank over the last 20 years, the financial inclusion needle has barely moved. Programmes to promote microfinance banks and e-money institutions, as well as gendered policies such as 'banking on equality', have made little impact, while private-sector lenders, microfinance banks and e-money institutions have barely scratched the surface. "The digital banking licences are very exciting," says Humayon Dar, director general at the Cambridge Institute of Islamic Finance. "Given the size of the market and the level of financial exclusion, these licences should allow these new banks to tap into the market, which has not been served previously." Reaching out The most recent estimates place Pakistan's unbanked population at between 161 million and 182 million people. Among women, financial inclusion is much worse than it is for men. In 2021, 28.2% of men had access to an account with a bank or financial institution, while only 13.5% of women did, according to the World Bank. On the lending side, Pakistan has the second-lowest credit-to-GDP ratio among its neighbours after Afghanistan. Pakistan's total credit to the private sector equals 15% of its GDP, much lower than in India (55%), Nepal (88%) and China (183%). "Unlike in more developed markets, it won't be a case of fighting for a piece of the pie, it will be a case of helping each other to grow the pie," says Fernando Morillo, global head of retail banking at Mashreq. "Reaching the unserved population is a mammoth task and opportunity, so there's work to be done for everyone." High mobile phone density could be an asset for digital banks expanding into this underserved market. As of June 2022, there were 194 million phones in use in Pakistan and it is expected that, particularly for low-income households, more than one person has access to each phone. Developments in phone and mobile-first account technologies have meant that even with the prices of smartphones increasing due to a devaluing rupee, there are still access points to digital banking on affordable devices. Some banks are getting involved in state bank initiatives to boost private-sector lending, but they aren't being aggressive Babur Rais, Credit Suisse The established banks have felt the impact of this, with customer bases growing after an accelerated shift to digital banking during Covid. Habib Bank, for example, has seen healthy growth in its customer base in the last few years. "It took us 70 years to get a client base of 12 million in 2018," said Habib chief executive Muhammad Aurangzeb during the 2023 Karandaaz Financial Inclusion conference. "We closed last year with 32 million clients without adding a single branch or brick-and-mortar presence, all because of digital." There have been a number of government initiatives to drive this digital engagement. Raast, a high-speed online payments system, was launched in 2021. Asaan Mobile Accounts, which enable people to open branchless bank accounts with just a computerised national ID card (CNIC) and mobile phone, without the need for internet access, were launched in December 2021. There are 13 branchless banking providers available so far, including commercial banks and e-money institutions. (Additional tax and employment information are needed to open an account at a branch outside of this initiative). The CNIC was launched by the National Database and Registration Authority in 2000 and has since developed to include biometric verification. "The national identity register is very advanced, only a few countries have one," says Morillo. "It will be critical for use because it will enable us to validate identities. Pakistan has put a lot of effort into building the infrastructure, so there's now a huge opportunity for the new digital and existing banks to leverage that." Lending limits However, just as there is massive opportunity here, there are also big challenges. "In the last 20 years, nowhere has pushed for and spoken about financial inclusion so much as the State Bank of Pakistan and yet it's barely pushed the needle," says one ex banker and specialist on Pakistan's financial inclusion efforts. "It's just not moving." The logistics of targeting the masses in rural areas is not easy. While digital banks are much easier to scale up than bricks-and-mortar microfinance banks, taking on new customers will always require cash collection in person. Easypaisa, one of the two largest e-money firms in the country, processes Rps100 million in cash each month - and that's within the already financially included groups. The big picture The most recent round of Pakistan's negotiations with the IMF have been under way since the start of February this year, but the route to the $6.5 billion bailout has not been easy. "The real problem is not economic, it's political," says Humayon Dar, director general at the Cambridge Institute of Islamic Finance. A general election is scheduled to take place later this year, and the political uncertainty in the country is intense. The IMF's conditions for a bailout - devaluation and tax and energy price rises - have proved unpopular, unsurprisingly. "The government is trying to balance implementing the IMF requirements that they can justify when they go for general elections later this year," says Babur Rais, head of frontier markets at Credit Suisse. The situation has not been helped by the parties politicising the bailout. According to press reports, the opposition leader has suggested that were they to come into power, they would not stick to the conditions of the bailout. "If they continue with the programme, the current government will definitely lose the next general election this year," reckons Dar. But this bullet will have to be bitten. Once the IMF bailout is confirmed, however, bilateral support from allies including China and Saudi Arabia is set to follow. The country will muddle through, but for people on the ground dealing with soaring inflation and a much higher cost of living, it won't be easy. Anyone looking to promote financial inclusion in rural areas will need agents to collect cash across the country. "The physical agents available to facilitate cash deposits are still very few and the number is not really growing," says Easypaisa chief executive Mudassar Aqil. "There is a tremendous amount of headroom, but it's critical that the offline payments part of the problem is solved." If the new digital banks can expand the depositor base, the next question for banks will be how to assess a potential borrower's creditworthiness. As most companies and individuals have been transacting in a largely informal economy with little credit history, this won't be easy. "The undocumented economy in Pakistan is huge," says Namoos Zaheer, senior finance specialist at the World Bank. "It's not just a question of limited supply of credit. There's also lower demand because to access credit you need to be a formal registered business with tax records and an individual would need to show documents like bank statements." Once these logistical questions are solved, there is yet another barrier: cultural. Among the population of Pakistan, there's widespread distrust of the government, banks and courts - meaning many people prefer to transact in cash. "No one can take away your cash," says Ammar Khan, founder at CreditBook, a startup providing technology for SMEs to keep their ledgers digitally, helping to formalize their credit history and build more data on the broader financial activity of SMEs in Pakistan. For Khan, the way to solve this problem w