easypaisa digital bank lets you skip the hassle of going to the bank and enjoy effortless financial solutions anywhere. Send money, get mobile load, activate packages, or start saving, do it all! Psst.. did we mention that you will get Rs. 100 as sign-up reward? Introducing Term Deposits Start investing with plans as short as 7 days, tailored to your financial goals. Enjoy guaranteed profits and a fully digital experience! Key features: - Monthly Account limit of up to Rs. 25 lakh - Biometric verification within easypaisa app - No hidden charges on transfers or payments Get ready to make your life easy in so many ways: Transfer money easypaisa app has made sending money easy across Pakistan. You can transfer money to any of the following: Â· any bank account like HBL Konnect, UBL, Meezan, Alfalah, Allied, Askari, NBP etc. Â· easypaisa account Â· Mobile wallets like JazzCash, SadaPay, NayaPay etc. Â· WhatsApp Â· CNIC number Â· Raast Transfer Free, instant, and secure transfer from easypaisa app to anyone Save and earn rewards daily Save for your saving goals with savings pocket and earn rewards on timely payments! Pay Bills Pay all utility bills in one app: Â· electricity (IESCO, PESCO, K-Electric etc.) Â· gas (SNGPL, SSGC) Â· telephone (PTCL, SCO) Â· internet (Nayatel etc.) Â· water (CDA etc.) Â· government fees (e-Challan, FBR - Mobile Tax, etc.) Set reminders to pay bills Get data bundles for Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, TikTok. Enjoy SMS or call packages 275+ Mobile packages for all networks Pay your post-paid bills Schedule your mobile load & packages payments Donate your zakat/charity through easypaisa digital bank app to 50+ donation organizations (including Shaukat Khanum, Edhi, Alkhidmat, MTJ, Indus Hospital, TCF etc.) Easycash Apply for easycash loan without any documents and get up to Rs. 25,000 in your account. Tenor: Day of disbursement to no less than 60 Days Loan Amount: PKR 200 - PKR 25,000 Max APR: 32%-40% (customer is not charged more than 32% - 40% in a year for a loan) Personal Loans are only available to Pakistan Citizens in the territory of Pakistan Example of a loan with easypaisa: Loan Amount: PKR 20,000 Tenor: No less than 60 Days Service Fee: 32% Total service fee: PKR 6,400 Disbursed Amount: 20,000 Repayment Amount: 26,400 Repaying your loan is now more convenient! You can pay off your dues through easypaisa app Top-up wallets Avail discounts when you recharge your Daraz or M-Tag Wallets Invite & earn Invite your friends to register on easypaisa and get cashback for both of you Scan & pay Enjoy instant QR payments at merchants nationwide Scan and pay with any banking app using easypaisa Raast QR Participate in competitions to win prizes One Rupee Game Win iPhone, iPad, Apple watch, Samsung phones etc. Insurance Protect yourself and your loved ones with insurance starting at just Rs. 1 along with hassle-free documentation and one-click subscription! Order food from restaurants Travel across Pakistan by booking hotels, flights and buses Get movie tickets Any complaints? Receive customer support from easypaisa! You can now update your personal information, file a complaint about a failed bank transfer, cancel a CNIC transaction, or alter the pin on your debit card using easypaisa app. Follow us facebook.com/easypaisa instragam.com/easypaisa tiktok.com/easypaisa Visit us easypaisa.com.pk Address Head Office 19-C, 9th Commercial Lane, Main Zamzama Boulevard, Phase 5 DHA Karachi Pakistan I am facing problem during the transfer of money. When I try to transfer money I receive OPT and when I try to write OPT in OPT field I canât write anything. Enhance security features and improvements. Version 5.6.8 The developer, Easypaisa bank limited, indicated that the appâs privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. For more information, see the developerâs privacy policy . Data Not Linked to You The following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity: Location Identifiers Usage Data Diagnostics Privacy practices may vary based, for example, on the features you use or your age. Learn More Accessibility The developer has not yet indicated which accessibility features this app supports. Learn More