Let shortyoh tell you.
I haul my ass through that crowded terminal.
This was back when I was in shape and could cover a mile in about 5 minutes flat.
Shit....
wait...
no one has even come to man the gate yet.
About half an hour later, someone finally shows up.
Don't worry, though, its coming, they claim.
No biggie, I think.
Lost as in crashed?
No.
Now, I've forgotten which aisle I've parked my car in before.
It seemed like it was going to be a great day of travel.
I have never been so wrong.
The woman next to me decided to use my arm as her personal stress ball, puncturing the skin everywhere she had fingernails.
We finally leveled out but it was like being inside a bucking horse for the next half an hour.
One call to customer service later and I was in a hotel for the night.
Not a decent hotel, a crappy hotel by the airport strip club kind of hotel(if you travel a lot, you know what I mean) in a room that reeked of smoke and I highly doubt had clean sheets or bedding.
I drowned my sorrows in the crappy hotel bar for all of 30 minutes, since that was all the time I had and went to bed.
So, my travel time ended up being 29 hours to get from Little Rock to New Orleans.
It would have been a 7 hour drive.
This story brought to you by United.
How nice!
But when I go to check out everything goes wrong.
Long part of the story short...
after some bad noise and exchanging of contact information, and the card itself, I was allowed to be on my way.
Fuck, Fuck, Fuck, Fuck...
Wheeewww.....
Safe....
Woot, and we are taxing by 11am, only 1hr and 45 mins late.
No explanation given.
I had been in Poland doing research for my masters thesis in chemistry.
When in grad school always do as your advisor says - he is more of a mentor than a talking head.
These are life skills he is sharing, not just laboratory technique and career advice.
Thus when he says, "When you are asked what you were doing in Poland for 4 weeks at the international security check to board, just tell them you were on vacation", you should listen.
DO NOT tell them you have been working on an NIH funded research project to develop targeted drug delivery systems to combat cancer.
He will then check his clipboard and then look at you...
then flip through his clipboard...
and LOOK AT YOU!
....
The lady in a full burka and three kids made it thru in a 1/5th of the time, I swear.
Okay...
Alright...
just over 10 hours and I will be back in the states, and just one puddle jump to go after that before I am back in good ole Raleigh NC.
Strange.
10 mins.....
20 mins...
Fuck.
Capt.
- "Everyone, we are having some problems..." fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck.
That means there is a lady in her 60s sitting beside you.
And she loves to conversate.
She love to talk.
She loves to tell you the things she knows that the general population is not aware of.
In fact..
and this is a direct quote...
"You know who invented Saccharine don't you?
Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck.
6-21-04 -> My 23rd Birthday!!!
As I am waking up in a rather nice hotel on the outskirts of Schriphol I realize all my friends are at my birthday/welcome home party at the Olde Bar in Raleigh.
Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck.
Everyone is up by 5/6am and back at the terminal.
I am in the same designated seat, beside the same basket case lady, but this is not the same chair.
The entertainment (which are laughable in a DC-10) controls totally different.
And believe me I was using them to drown out Saccharine/Mormon lady.
Oh you cheeky dutch KLM fuckers.
Much respect or so I thought.
WE STILL AT THE TERMINAL FOR ANOTHER 2 HOURS WHILE THEY DO THE BAGGAGE!!!!
Which everyone can see being done.
fucking Memphis Intl.
then you know) 45 mins late for my co
