In New York, the $19 billion redevelopment of John F.
"The impact of climate change has humbled us all," said Rick Cotton, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns JFK along with the smaller LaGuardia and Newark airports.
The rise in sea level alone means airports may have to spend $57 billion to maintain current risk levels by the end of the century, according to a Climate Risk Management report published in 2021 by Newcastle University and the Tyndall Center for Climate Change Research in the U.K.
Heat waves this summer across the U.S., Europe and Asia put pressure on cooling systems at airports - which are crucial not just for keeping passengers comfortable but also ensuring critical electronic systems don't overheat.
Runways contain different mixtures of asphalt depending on a region's climate.
A surface in Dubai, for example, is made up of a different composition to withstand higher temperatures than one in the U.K., which is now sweating under the heat for longer periods.
The New York Port Authority is making changes to its low-lying, coastal airports, including moving electric substations to the roofs of buildings from ground level, said Cotton.
To protect the JFK hub, the authority also plans to elevate or relocate buildings to less flood-prone areas of the hubs and install flood-control devices.
Cotton said the agency has been on "high alert" regarding the threats of climate change and learned lessons from Hurricane Sandy in 2012, which forced water over the seawall at LaGuardia, wrecking electronic equipment on the ground and flooding the airfield.
"We've designed the terminal so that critical infrastructure would be protected in the event of flooding due to rising sea levels or storms, and we added deployable flood barriers as an additional precaution," said Helena Williams, CEO of JFK Millennium Partners, which is leading a $4.9 billion redevelopment of Terminal 6 at the airport.
Schiphol is also working on a rainfall disposal system that can cope with increasing precipitation for the next century, according to an official.
The airport is creating shadowed areas along walking and cycling routes, improving ventilation, planting trees and designing heat-resistant surfaces so that buildings and the surrounding urban area don't overheat.
In France, water scarcity and high temperatures in certain regions have led to restricted water usage.
Higher temperatures even affect the laws of physics underpinning flying itself.
Warm weather means the air is less dense, creating reduced lift for the wings and power for the engines.
Runways can expand and crack when exposed to vast temperature swings that are becoming more common, particularly when they were initially conceived to withstand far narrower temperature ranges.
Some of the hundreds of airports that Arup works with have plans to redevelop their airfield system or choose new materials for cooling and ventilation systems in terminals.
Daily inspections and maintenance on runways amount to at least tens of thousands of dollars per year and could increase with climate change, said Thomas Budd, a senior lecturer at Cranfield University in England.
A major repair to a runway can quickly run into hundreds of thousands of dollars and cause major disruptions, whereas a total resurfacing can cost as much as $100 million.
"Climate change is happening now so we don't have the luxury of a great deal of time to get this ready," Budd said.
"The time for this was probably 20, 30 years ago."
