An operator sitting at a radio transmitter taps out a message, and then a receiver spits out the transmission in another part of the country, generating an instant legal document.
And so it was that on December 31, 2015, the superintendent of the jail in Muzaffarnagar District, Uttar Pradesh, received a copy of a radiogram from India's Ministry of Home Affairs, marked "urgent." The message concerned a particular inmate named Vivek Premi, a local jeweler's son who had recently spent his 22nd birthday behind bars.
This counted as a grave allegation: Killing cows is sacrilege to many Hindus and is illegal in Uttar Pradesh.
To make matters even worse for Reyaz, Premi was a local leader in the Bajrang Dal, a radical Hindu youth militia that has long waged a vigilante crusade against cow slaughter.
A large mob formed, smartphones at the ready, as Premi beat the man into semiconsciousness and flogged him with a belt for more than an hour.
"Cow killer!
Cow killer!
Before long, the mob overflowed the banks of the physical marketplace, as videos of Premi's public torture of Reyaz went viral on WhatsApp and YouTube.
Shamli and Muzaffarnagar, which sit in a sugarcane-growing and light industrial region about two and a half hours north of New Delhi, rarely command national attention in India.
District authorities arrested Premi and invoked a law called the National Security Act, which allows state governments to preemptively detain people who pose a threat to the public order.
As it happens, the street fighters of the Bajrang Dal share a parent organization with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, or BJP.
Both militia and political front were spawned by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a right-wing paramilitary volunteer organization that advances the cause of Hindutva-an ideology that aims to refashion India into a state for Hindus.
More than a hundred men milled around in the dusk, hunching into heavy sweaters to ward off the chill.
The men clutched plastic bags of marigold garlands and chatted excitedly amongst themselves.
Their ranks included an ultra-right-wing official from the BJP, along with officers from several radical Hindu groups.
Despite the cold, their quiet conversations crackled with energy.
During his six and a half months in jail, Premi's beard had filled out, and now his mustache curled up at the tips, making his round, boyish face appear older.
One of them draped a saffron shawl around Premi's shoulders and anointed his forehead with a tilak, the red mark that devout Hindus wear.
"Dekho, dekho koun aayaa!
That night, when he had settled in at home, he asked his family for a phone so he could check who had messaged him while he was in jail.
The young vigilante was not particularly fond of social media.
Before he could do anything, the phone froze.
He had to switch it off completely.
It took him a few days to scroll through it all and to process the scope and character of his new fame.
His thrashing of Reyaz had been national news in India, and on social media, Premi found, most people seemed to have defended him.
Overnight, Premi realized, he had become a household name among the Hindu middle classes of Uttar Pradesh, and many of them shared his convictions: that Hindus were under threat, that Muslims were unrelenting in their conspiracies to turn India into an Islamic state.
"That was my introduction to the power of social media," Premi says.
Shortly after his release, Premi took to Twitter.
For six years, from 2012 until 2018, I worked as a staff writer for The Hindu, India's second largest English-language newspaper.
At first I was based in New Delhi, the city where I had spent half of my life.
Polls had favored Modi's chances in the election for some time.
But for many Indians-and perhaps especially those in the liberal, anglophone press-his victory was shocking nonetheless.
For one thing, there was the sheer, unexpected scale of the rout: Modi's coalition won such a commanding majority that the Congress Party, which had ruled India with few interruptions since independence, was driven into near insignificance.
But more than that, it was the underlying truth that was so difficult to absorb.
For years, Modi's reputation had been defined by his history as a far-right Hindu nationalist.
But the even more disturbing implication of Modi's election was that tens of millions of Indians had voted enthusiastically for his original brand: for the virulently Islamophobic, authoritarian rhetoric that his party spewed through lesser officials and, sub rosa, on vast WhatsApp lists.
But to do so, I didn't have to go particularly far.
With a population of some 220 million people, Uttar Pradesh, which borders Delhi, is India's most populous state.
Beyond its sheer size, it is an important bellwether in the country's fractious democracy.
And the northwestern corner of the state, where I was headed, was a particularly active fault line of sectarian violence and paranoia.
It was all, the analysis went,
