Politics in Indonesia: Resilient elections, defective democracy The pressures on Indonesian democracy are not likely to abate under a second-term Jokowi or a Prabowo presidency - Incumbent President Joko Widodo is the front-runner to defeat long-time rival Prabowo Subianto in Indonesia's fourth direct presidential election on 17 April.
Executive Summary On the eve of historic elections, a conundrum lies at the heart of Indonesian politics.
President Joko Widodo, who is the favourite to be elected again in April, rose to power thanks to the competitive nature of Indonesian elections.
Yet, he has proven to be a poor guardian of democracy.
On his watch, human rights, the rule of law, and the protection of minorities have all weakened.
For the first time, this election will be held on the same day as the legislative elections.
Indonesians will be voting for the upper and lower houses of the national parliament, as well as provincial and district legislatures.
There are more than 245 000 candidates running for over 20 000 seats in what may be the most complicated single-day election the world has ever seen.[1] Just over 20 years after the fall of Suharto's long-ruling authoritarian regime, free, fair, and peaceful elections have become the norm in Indonesia.
President Joko Widodo's rise to power from obscurity illustrated the genuinely competitive nature of the electoral system.
Ironically, however, Jokowi, as he is known, has allowed human rights, the rule of law, and the protection of minorities to weaken since he was elected in 2014.
Jokowi has blinked in the face of opposition from conservative Islamic groups, legitimising anti-pluralistic views that undermine the rights of Indonesia's minorities and galvanising the rise of divisive identity politics.
And, surrounded by powerful former generals, he has countenanced an expanding role for the military in politics, threatening to undermine the reforms that followed the fall of Suharto in 1998.[2] A decade ago, Rizal Sukma, one of Indonesia's most eminent policy analysts (and the current ambassador to the United Kingdom), published a paper arguing that the country's politics were characterised by "defective elections, resilient democracy".[3] Now, Indonesian politics looks more like a story of "resilient elections, defective democracy".
Building a democracy in a vast, multi-ethnic, multi-religious nation is not a linear process that can be assessed by a simple measure of progress versus regression.
Academics and human rights activists are right to raise the alarm about the backward steps on Jokowi's watch, which come at a time when democratic ideals and practices are being eroded across the world.
It is important, however, to see recent trends in the context of Indonesia's history and the difficulties of moving from authoritarianism to democracy.
Many of the challenges to democracy in Indonesia today stem from the 'original sin' of reformasi, the reform movement that gave birth to the modern Indonesian state.
The arrival of freedom of speech and association has allowed all sorts of civil society groups to flourish, including hard-line Islamists who have reignited long-running debates about the role of Islam in the state and society.
It will briefly explain why Jokowi and running mate Ma'ruf Amin are the frontrunners.
Finally, this Analysis will examine the nature of democratic backsliding under Jokowi and discuss how these tensions in Indonesia's system might play out.
The 2019 elections: Who are the candidates?
"No problem," the new president replied.
"Now I have a plane."[6] Five years on, Jokowi's workmanlike attitude, and his focus on short-term tactics over long-term strategy, continues to be his greatest strength - and his greatest weakness.
Following years of neglect under previous governments, the 57-year-old former furniture businessman has significantly accelerated the development of infrastructure, from toll roads to airports.
Jokowi has looked most happy, and most authoritative, donning a hard hat and inspecting infrastructure projects across the country.
During his first term, the official poverty rate has fallen from around 11 per cent to just below 10 per cent, although, as in many countries, there is scepticism about such official data being massaged for political ends.[7] Economic growth, measured by GDP, has expanded by around 5 per cent per year on his watch, well below his early promise to boost it to 7 per cent but not bad compared to other countries in the region, China excluded.
This has stabilised his political position but at the cost of progress.
The president has taken a similarly hard-line approach towards the drugs trade.
