Elections in Indonesia have taken place since 1955 to elect a legislature.
Since then, the president is elected for a five-year term, as are the 580-member People's Representative Council (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat, DPR), the 152-seat Regional Representative Council (Dewan Perwakilan Daerah, DPD) in 2024 general election, in addition to provincial and municipal legislative councils (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat Daerah Provinsi/Kabupaten/Kota, DPRD).
Members of the People's Representative Council are elected by proportional representation from multi-candidate constituencies.
There, Indonesia's 34 provinces treated as constituencies and, regardless of the size and population, every province return four senators.
Starting from the 2015 unified local elections, Indonesia started to elect governors and mayors simultaneously on the same date.
Elections were first promised for January 1946 by vice-president Hatta on 3 November 1945, a promise repeated later the same month by Prime Minister Sjahrir and senior minister Amir Sjarifuddin in response to criticism of the cabinet for being non-democratic.
However, there were regional elections in Bali, Solo and Kediri.[2][3] Indonesia's first general election elected members of the DPR and the Constitutional Assembly of Indonesia (Konstituante).
The election was organised by the government of Prime Minister Ali Sastroamidjojo.
The election occurred in two stages: - The election of the members of the DPR, which took place on 29 September 1955.
Twenty-nine political parties and individuals took part; - The election for the members of the Constitutional Assembly, which took place on 15 December 1955.
Ten political parties participated.
In accordance with the legislation, these were contested by two parties: United Development Party (PPP) and Indonesian Democratic Party (PDI); as well as Golkar.
These were the only parties allowed to contest general elections.[4][5] - Weakening the remaining opponents: The two political parties were forbidden to criticise government policy,[6] and the government had to approve all slogans they used.
Furthermore, they were not allowed to organise at the village level (where the majority of Indonesians live).
When a potentially charismatic figure (in the form of founding president Sukarno's daughter Megawati Sukarnoputri) became a leader of the PDI, the government engineered a political convention in Medan in 1996 to remove her.
Ironically, the ensuing disturbances at the PDI's Jakarta headquarters began a chain of events that indirectly led to the downfall of the New Order.[4][5] - Coercion to vote Golkar: Civil servants and state- and regional-owned enterprises employees were compulsorily members of the Golkar-linked Employees' Corps of the Republic of Indonesia (KORPRI) and hence ordered to support Golkar, or face accusations of insubordination and even forced relocation to a remote region.
Private sector workers were reminded of the need for "stability".
Many people believed the vote was not secret, and the government did little to persuade them otherwise.
Many voters were still at school, and they were warned by teachers of a link between their choice at the ballot box and exam success [5] - The vote-counting process: The Golkar votes were counted first, then those of the two other parties.
on the day after voting, Golkar had already been awarded 94% of its eventual vote.
Habibie.
The six largest parties which passed the electoral threshold of 2% were the Indonesian Democratic Party-Struggle (PDI-P), the reformed Golkar Party, PPP, National Awakening Party (PKB), National Mandate Party (PAN), and Crescent Star Party (PBB).
Megawati then became vice president.
During its 2002 annual session, the MPR added 14 amendments to the 1945 Constitution.
Included in these amendments were measures to reorganise the Indonesian legislature.
Because all the seats in the MPR would be directly elected, this called for the removal of the military from the legislature, whose 38 seats for the 1999-2004 period were all appointed.[9] This change and an amendment for direct election of the President and Vice-President were significant steps for Indonesia on the road towards full democracy.[10] The 2004 legislative election was held on 5 April 2004.
A total of 24 parties contested the election.
17 parties won legislative seats.
In 2005, Indonesia also began holding direct elections for governors, mayors and regents.
Prior to this, local executives had been elected by a vote of the local legislative body.
Constitutional
