"We have every reason to believe that these attacks, while launched by the Houthis in Yemen, are fully enabled by Iran." The Carney, a US destroyer, responded to distress calls and provided assistance following missile and drone launches from Houthi-controlled territory, according to US Central Command.
In a broadcast statement, the spokesperson said the attacks were in response to the demands of the Yemeni people and calls from Islamic nations to stand with the Palestinian people.
The US military said the Carney shot down two drones as it helped the commercial vessels.
Israeli military spokesperson R Adm Daniel Hagari said the ships had "no connection to the state of Israel".
Yemen's Houthis, who have the backing of Iran, have launched several missile and drone attacks on Israel since the start of the war in Gaza on 7 October.
They are not thought to have inflicted any serious damage.
Separately, a US airstrike killed five Iraqi militants near the northern city of Kirkuk as they prepared to launch explosive projectiles at US forces in the country, three Iraqi security sources said, identifying them as members of an Iran-backed militia.
A US military official confirmed a "self-defence strike on an imminent threat" that targeted a drone staging site near Kirkuk on Sunday afternoon.
A statement by the Islamic Resistance in Iraq, an umbrella group representing several Iraqi armed factions with close ties to Tehran, said five of its members had been killed, and vowed retaliation against US forces.
Iraqi armed groups have claimed more than 70 such attacks against US forces since 17 October over Washington's backing of Israel in its bombardment of Gaza.
The group claimed it was owned by Israel but there was no immediate evidence to support this.
In the incident, two ballistic missiles were fired from Houthi-controlled areas in Yemen toward the general location of the two ships, but landed 10 nautical miles away in the Gulf of Aden, the US military said.
The body called on vessels in the vicinity to exercise caution.
In mid-October, the USS Carney shot down three ground-launched missiles as well as several drones that were fired by Houthi militants, the Pentagon said.
At the time, the US said the missiles were "potentially heading towards Israel" as justification for its action.
Reuters contributed to this report
