- The storming of the US Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump has prompted calls for his removal from office before President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in on January 20.
- Trump has taken a more conciliatory tone - promising a smooth transfer of power and calling for 'healing and reconciliation'.
- The chaotic scenes unfolded after Trump addressed thousands of protesters and repeated unfounded claims that the election was stolen from him.
Four people died and 64 were arrested as protesters forced their way into the building.
Hello and welcome to Al Jazeera's continuing coverage of the fallout from the chaos at the Capitol in Washington, DC.
Recommended Stories list of 3 items- list 1 of 3Facebook, Instagram block Trump's accounts 'indefinitely' - list 2 of 3The 25th Amendment: Can Trump be declared unfit for office?
- list 3 of 3Dow opens up 133 points as markets look beyond US Capitol siege UN rights office: Trump should disavow 'very dangerous' language The UN rights office said that President Donald Trump should disavow "very dangerous" language he and other political leaders have used about the US election result and the storming of the Capitol in Washington this week.
"We are deeply troubled by the incitement to violence and hatred by political leaders and we are calling on the President of the United States and other political leaders to disavow, openly disavow, false and dangerous narratives that are being spread ...," UN Human Rights Office spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani said in response to a question about Trump's personal responsibility for events at the Capitol.
"This kind of inciteful language can be very dangerous," she told an online briefing.
'We live in two Americas': LeBron James on Capitol unrest Los Angeles Lakers forward LeBron James said the violent mob of President Donald Trump's supporters forcing their way into the US Capitol showed that there were "two Americas".
James watched on television as the events took place, and on Thursday wondered what would have happened if the intruders had been mostly Black.
"We live in two Americas," James said, following the Lakers' 118-109 loss to the San Antonio Spurs.
"And that was a prime example of that yesterday, and if you don't understand that or don't see that after seeing what you saw yesterday, then you really need to take a step back." The 36-year-old added: "There's no ifs, ands or buts: we already know what would've happened to my kind if anyone would have even got close to the Capitol, let alone storm inside the offices, inside the hallways." Erdogan calls US unrest 'disgrace for democracy' Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has called the US Capitol Building violence a "disgrace for democracy".
"I hope transition of presidency to Joe Biden on January 20 occurs as calmly as Trump says in his statement," he said.
Erdogan extended his condolences to families of those killed during riots in Capitol Hill, wishes recovery to injured.
FBI offers reward for details of those behind Washington pipe bombs The FBI is offering a reward of up to $50,000 for information on the individuals responsible for placing pipe bombs in the committee headquarters of the key US political parties in the capital, the agency said.
Thursday's statement was accompanied by an image of a masked suspect wearing gloves and a hoodie, carrying an object.
"The FBI is offering a reward of up to $50,000 for information leading to the location, arrest and conviction," the agency's Washington field office added.
How Trump's presidency started - and how it ended Photos from the heart of American democracy show stark difference between Trump's inauguration and the deadly violence at the Capitol.
More here.
Capitol Police rejected offers of federal help to quell mob Three days before supporters of President Donald Trump rioted at the Capitol, the Pentagon asked the US Capitol Police if it needed National Guard manpower.
And as the mob descended on the building on Wednesday, Justice Department leaders reached out to offer up FBI agents.
The police turned them down both times, according to senior defense officials and two people familiar with the matter.
Despite plenty of warnings of a possible insurrection and ample resources and time to prepare, the Capitol Police planned only for a free speech demonstration.
Police officer dies from injuries sustained in Capitol riot Brian Sicknick, a US Capitol police officer, has died from injuries sustained after supporters of Donald Trump forced their way into the building.
"Officer Sicknick was responding to the riots on Wednesday, January 6, 2021 at the US Capitol and was injured while physically engaging with protesters," police said in a statement announcing his death late on Thursday.
Read more here.
China state media says US facing 'internal collapse' China's state media was full of pictures on Thursday of pro-Trump supporters in the US Capitol, claiming some Chinese saw the violence as "karma" after what had happened in Hong Kong in 2019.
"The unprecedented mob in the Capitol, a symbol of the US system, is the result of the US society's severe division and the country's failure to control such division," it said.
You can read more on that story here.
Taiwan says US democracy remains 'beacon of hope' Taiwan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has reiterated the territory's support for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris saying the events of the past 36 hours were testament to the "strength & resilience" of democracy in the US.
"Anarchy, disorder & mob rule will never prevail.
But democracy & freedom will." Four more White House advisers quit: Reuters Reuters news agency is reporting that four more senior advisers in the White House National Security Council have resigned.
A senior administration official and a person familiar with the matter told Reuters that the officials who stepped down on Thursday were: Erin Walsh, senior director for African affairs; Mark Vandroff, senior director for defence policy; Anthony Ruggiero, senior director for weapons of mass destruction; and Rob Greenway, senior director for Middle Eastern and North African affairs.
Pompeo defends US after comparisons with 'banana republic' Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has hit back at claims Wednesday's attack on the Capitol showed the US had become a "banana republic".
Writing on his personal Twitter account, Pompeo likened the analogy to slander and said it showed a "faulty understanding" of both "banana republics and democracy in America".
Chao, DeVos quit in protest against storming of Capitol Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos have resigned from Trump's administration.
Chao, who is married to Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, said in an email to staff that the mob attack "has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside." She said her resignation will take effect on Monday.
"There is no mistaking the impact your rhetoric had on the situation, and it is the inflection point for me," she wrote, adding her resignation was effective from Friday.
Other officials, including deputy national security adviser Matt Pottinger, a leading aide on Trump's China policy, have already resigned.
Trump had refused to concede the election to Biden as recently as Wednesday, when he encouraged his supporters to march to the Capitol where legislators had gathered to certify the results of the presidential election.
With Congress certifying Biden's victory after the chaos at the Capitol, Trump said a "new administration will be inaugurated on January 20.
My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth orderly and seamless transition of power.
This moment calls for healing and reconciliation." Trump concluded by telling his supporters their "incredible journey is only just beginning".
Loeffler concedes to Warnock two days after Georgia Senate race called Georgia Senator Kelly Loeffler, a wealthy businesswoman and ardent Trump supporter, conceded the race against Reverend Raphael Warnock on Thursday.
"I fully intend to stay in this fight for freedom, for our values and for the future of this great country," Loeffler said in a video concession.
Warnock, the son of a sharecropper, never held public office before.
He defeated Loeffler during a runoff race held on Tuesday.
