Tied in place and immobile, the eight vessels moored at "Battleship Row" were easy targets.
In the center of the Japanese flight path, sailors and Marines aboard the USS Oklahoma fought back furiously.
She didn't have a chance.
Holes as wide as 40′ were torn into the hull in the first ten minutes of the fight.
Oklahoma rolled over and died as the ninth torpedo slammed home.
The damage was catastrophic.
347 aircraft were damaged, most caught while still on the ground.
159 of those were destroyed altogether.
2,403 were dead or destined to die from the attack, another 1,178 wounded.
Frantic around the clock rescue efforts began almost immediately to get at 461 sailors and Marines trapped inside.
Tapping could be heard as holes were drilled to get to those trapped inside.
Only 32 were delivered from certain death.
14 Marines and 415 sailors lost their lives onboard Oklahoma, either immediately or in the days and weeks to come.
Bulkhead markings later revealed that at least some of the doomed lived on in that pitch black, upside-down hell, waiting for rescue that would come too late.
The last survivor drew the last such mark on Christmas Eve, 17 days after the attack.
Of sixteen ships lost or damaged, thirteen would be repaired and returned to service.
USS Arizona remains on the bottom, a monument to the event and to the 1,102-honored dead who remain entombed within her hull.
The USS Utah defied salvage efforts.
She, too, is a War Grave, 64 honored dead remaining within her hull, lying at the bottom not far from the Arizona.
Repairs were prioritized, and USS Oklahoma was beyond repair.
She, and her dead, would have to wait.
The extraordinarily difficult salvage at last began in March of 1943.
21 giant A-frames were fixed to the hull, 3′′ cables connecting compound pulleys to 21 electric motors, each capable of pulling 429 tons.
Two pull configurations were used over 74 days, first the configuration below, then direct connections once the hull had achieved 70°.
At last fully righted, the ship was now 10 feet below water.
Massive temporary wood and concrete structures called "cofferdams" closed the gaping wounds left by torpedoes, so the hull could be pumped out and re-floated.
A problem even larger than those torpedo holes were the gaps between hull plates, caused by the initial capsize and righting operations.
Divers stuffed kapok in the gaps as water was pumped out.
Individual divers spent 2-3 years on the Oklahoma salvage job.
Underwater arc welding and hydraulic jet techniques were developed during this period and remain in use to this day.
1,848 dives were performed for a total of 10,279 man hours under pressure.
For all that, no military and only one civilian diver lost his life, that, when his air hose became severed.
Salvage workers entered the pressurized hull through airlocks wearing masks and protective suits.
Bodies were in advanced stages of decomposition by this time, and the oil and chemical-soaked interior was toxic to life.
Most victims were impossible to identify.
Twenty 10,000 gallon per minute pumps operated for 11 hours straight.
On November 3, 1943, the 'Mighty Okie' broke from the bottom and once again floated on her own.
Oklahoma entered dry dock the following month, a total loss to the American war effort.
She was stripped of guns and superstructure and sold for scrap on December 5, 1946, to the Moore Drydock Company of Oakland, California.
She never made it.
On May 17, disaster struck.
backward.
Despite her massive engines, Hercules was being dragged astern, hurtling past Monarch, herself swamped at the stern and being dragged backward at 17mph.
Fortunately for both tugs, skippers Kelly Sprague of Hercules and George Anderson of Monarch had loosened the cable drums connecting 1,400-foot tow lines to Oklahoma.
Monarch's line played out and detached.
With Oklahoma forever sunk beneath the waves and Hercules' tow line pointing straight down, Hercules detached with a crash at the last possible moment, the 409-ton tug bobbing to the surface like the float on a child's fishing line.
Commanded by Charles B.
McVay, Jr., father of the ill-fated skipper of the USS Indianapolis Charles Butler McVay III, Oklahoma's role in the Great War was limited, due to a shortage of oil in major theaters of operation.
Notable among her exploits of WW1 were the memorable fist fights crew members got into with Sinn Féin members in Berehaven, County Cork, and casualties sustained during the 1918-19 flu pandemic.
Oklahoma was up-armored in a 1927 - '29 refit.
Oklahoma was dispatched to Europe in 1936 to evacuate American civilians during the Spanish civil war.
Of the 429 killed, 394 were buried as unknown persons.
Since 2015, advances in forensic science and dna technology have led to the identification of 346.
Many warships sunk during World War 2 have since been found.
The final resting place of the USS Oklahoma remains, a mystery.
