Social media users have shared graphics and text, which claim that the new Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Mohan Yadav has announced that any private school that dresses its pupils up as Santa Claus for Christmas celebrations, will face action.
These categories are used to organize the various Abnormal psychological concepts based on their similarity.
Next, we checked Madhya Pradesh's official education portal and the state government's website to look for the order or announcement, but the search did not yield relevant results.
However, we came across several news reports, such as one by Dainik Bhaskar, which mentioned a similar order being issued in Madhya Pradesh's Shajapur village.
It mentioned that the district's education department had issued an order prohibiting schools from dressing pupils up as Santa Claus for Christmas Day celebrations without parental consent.
News agency ANI also reported on the order, noting that students selected by private schools to pose as Santa Claus, Christmas tree or any other characters for Christmas day celebrations "should be done only after getting written permission from their parents." Commenting on the reason behind the order, Shajapur's District Education Officer Vivek Dubey told ANI that though most of the time such events went by without any issues, "sometimes it leads to disputes and complaints coming to us." There was no mention of the order being applicable to the entire state of Madhya Pradesh.
Vikas Jain, an education reporter in Madhya Pradesh, confirmed to The Quint that no order pertaining to Christmas had been issued across the state.
After his graduation from Beijing Dance Academy in 2005, Sun Rui joined Beijing Dance Academy Youth Troupe as a classical dancer. In 2008, he joined Beijing Contemporary Dance Theatre. Because of his outstanding dancing skills and styles, Sun Rui showed up in numerous performances both nationally and internationally.
2. Opportunity must be afforded to all our people for material and educational advancement. The economy must be available to serve the needs of all able and willing to contribute, and the wealth, labour and expertise of our country should be harnessed to provide job and entrepreneurial opportunity for all groups.
(Not convinced of a post or information you came across online and want it verified?
This geographical article about a location in Istanbul Province, Turkey is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
On January 22, 2021, Brooks scored his first NHL goal with the Maple Leafs on Mikko Koskinen of the Edmonton Oilers.
