That sustainability know-how could earn big bucks as a service for fleets worldwide going electric.
So how much electricity might Amazon need for 100,000 trucks?
Still, at this scale a back of the envelope calculation will do for a first look.
Rivian offers its current vehicle platform as a truck or an SUV.
The smallest battery is 105 kWh and the largest 180 kWh.
Let's assume the Amazon truck battery will be 200 kWh with speed limited to preserve range, and reduce insurance costs.
By today's standards Amazon is probably the largest planned battery operator in the world, by a long way.
Therefore, Amazon will need about 5 GW of wind power.
However, no power plant operates at 100 per cent capacity all the time.
Wind is variable, but predictable.
In some countries, regulation doesn't yet allow sourcing power directly from wind and solar power plants.
A $20 billion clean-truck transition What will it cost?
A truck might be $100,000, including about $20,000 for the battery, for a fleet cost of $10 billion.
Wind power plants about $9-10 billion.
So, the source-to-service solution is about $20 billion, give or take, or $2 billion a year for 10 years.
Leasing is an option for trucks and batteries.
There's a precedent.
Amazon will capture reams of data from electric trucks to design, train and refine algorithms for optimising routes, electricity and batteries.
Amazon's expertise in artificial intelligence (AI), especially machine learning, will be critical.
Getting the most value out of the mobile battery fleet extends beyond shipping into electricity trading.
Selling energy in vehicle batteries back to the grid is an emerging opportunity over the coming decade.
Countries with open electricity markets, such as Australia, India, Malaysia and the US, will be in the vanguard.
Such vehicle-to-grid (V2G) services, conceptually, could result in vehicle owners earning cash or electricity credits.
Amazon's batteries are potentially the largest collection of VPPs in the world, at least outside China.
If most of Amazon's vehicles are on the road during peak periods the V2G opportunity is small.
That's a good probability and risk opportunity for AI to solve.
Batteries have a second-life after trucking.
After its second-life value is exhausted there's money from recycling materials into new products, such as batteries.
Amazon fleet services for a few billion electric trucks and buses Running a fleet of electric trucks is going to save money in energy and maintenance costs compared to diesel trucks.
It will complement Amazon's push into delivery drone services and prepare the company for the electrification of short-haul aircraft in the late 2020s.
In which case, free delivery on everything?
Like this content?
Unlock unlimited access to our content and members-only perks.
