These 21 Companies Are Switching to Electric Vehicle Fleets Next time an Amazon package arrives at your door or Waste Management picks up your trash, it could be in an electric vehicle.
Amazon and Waste Management are among dozens of companies rolling out electric vehicle fleets.
Fleet electrification offers a host of exciting benefits for corporations - not the least of which is their potential to reduce carbon emissions.
Knowing this, it makes sense that we're seeing more electric trucks and vans on the road.
So which companies are leading the charge?
Source: Amazon AT&T AT&T has commited to be carbon neutral across its global operations by 2035.
In addition to downsizing its fleet by more than 8,000 vehicles, four out of five new vehicles purchased since 2019 are hybrids.
Best Buy If you look carefully, you might see Best Buy's Geek Squad cruising around in hybrids.
The electronics giant added 1,000 Toyota Prius C hybrids to its Geekmobile fleet in 2016 as part of its commitment to be carbon neutral across its operations by 2040.
CEMEX Cemex has announced a plan to convert its fleet of company cars and vans to hybrid and electric models in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.
In addition to incentivizing employees to purchase electric vehicles and commuter bikes and installing EV charging for staff at all its facilities, Clif Bar will transition its fleet to all plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles by 2030.
This will account for 16% of its Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Comcast began introducing electric vehicles into its fleet starting in 2018 through an electric sedan pilot with Chevy Bolts.
Consumers Energy Consumers Energy wants to encourage its customers to switch to electric vehicles, and it is leading by example.
The Michigan-based utility plans to make 30% of its fleet - including all light-duty vehicle purchases - electric by 2030.
Duke Energy Duke Energy currently has over 600 electric vehicles in its fleet, including over 220 on-road vehicles.
Fedex Fedex has been using electric vehicles since 2010.
Today, the delivery giant is scaling up its EV program with plans to make half its parcel pickup and delivery fleet electric by 2025.
The delivery giant will be the first company to take delivery of General Motors' EV600 vans in late 2021.
Frito-Lay In 2010, Frito-Lay operated the largest number of all-electric vehicles in the US.
The plant will serve as a proof of concept for future projects.
Genentech In 2018, Genentech began operating 10 electric commuter buses - called GenenBuses - to shuttle employees to its San Francisco headquarters.
The biotech company is now in the process of converting nearly half of its 60+ commuter buses to electric.
Its fleet electrification contract with Sustainability Partners allows HDOT and other state agencies to purchase EVs on a cost-per-mile basis, reducing the upfront cost of purchase.
Heathrow Airport London's Heathrow Airport boasts one of the largest electric vehicle fleets in the UK.
Electric vehicles are also being incorporated into other aspects of airside operations, including electric baggage tugs and ground support equipment.
IKEA As part of its commitment to become climate positive by 2030, IKEA has set a goal of 100% zero emission home deliveries by 2025.
It is leading the way by transitioning its own employee car fleet to electric starting in 2021.
By 2030, LeasePlan aims to achieve net zero emissions from its global managed fleet.
It has already begun making the transition in some cities, like Paris, which was expected to be all-electric in Spring 2021.
PepsiCo PepsiCo deployed its first electric vehicles a decade ago.
Today, the beverage giant is looking to scale by converting a large portion of its 27,000 trucks and vans to EVs in order to achieve carbon neutrality by 2040.
Among other things, it has ordered 100 Tesla all-electric semis, 15 of which will be deployed by the end of 2021.
Although it's not clear how many of its 24,000 fleet vehicles today are hybrids, we do know that Verizon had around 300 electric vans on the road as of 2018.
Waste Management Waste Management's fleet includes over 17,000 collection vehicles.
The disposal company has made significant progress toward reducing emissions from its fleet.
Source: Waste Management What's next?
In response, automakers are ramping up development of commercial EVs.
Request a demo today!
