Amazon will launch its first 20 electric heavy goods vehicles (eHGVs) in Germany by year end.
Amazon is doing its part to minimize the carbon footprint of the German transportation sector by replacing traditional heavy goods vehicles with zero-emission eHGVs.
Using the latest innovations in battery technology, the electric trucks will use 360kW electric charging points, capable of charging the 40-tonne trucks in less than two hours.
"Amazon is committed to decarbonizing its fleet, and the middle mile is a notoriously hard-to-abate sector," said Andreas Marschner, Vice President Transportation Services Europe at Amazon.
"That's why welcoming these electric heavy goods vehicles to our fleet is such a critical milestone.
We're operating one of the fastest-growing commercial transportation electrification programs, and we'll continue to invest and innovate to decarbonize and deliver packages to customers with zero emissions." "Big actors in the transport business play a very important role in leading the industry's efforts to lower its carbon footprint.
Therefore I'm glad that Amazon is going electric with us on their heavier transport assignments." "We need more trucks with alternative drive systems on Germany's roads to make road freight transport more sustainable and for us to comply with European requirements.
Companies are interested in converting their fleets to clean drive systems.
This targeted support is part of our overall Climate-friendly Commercial Vehicles concept.
That is the central roadmap for implementing climate protection measures in road freight transport by 2030, and we are relying on a package of measures comprising support, management of the development of alternative refueling and charging infrastructure, and an appropriate regulatory framework.
We can only achieve the tasks ahead of us through joint and targeted action by all stakeholders.
The eHGVs join Amazon's growing fleet of zero-emission vehicles.
Launching its first eHGVs in Germany is part of Amazon's efforts to embed decarbonization strategies throughout its business.
This applies to all Amazon operations such as corporate offices, physical stores, and logistics facilities, including on-site charging points.
Once operational, it is expected to produce enough energy to power the equivalent of more than 450,000 German homes each year.
Amazon has phased out single-use plastic packaging in its German fulfilment centers and will continue to act boldly to address climate change and to invest in solutions that help meet the company's net-zero commitment.
