Details of the truck battery or route patterns are unavailable so it's hard to say.
Still, at this scale a back of the envelope calculation will do for a first look.
Rivian offers its current vehicle platform as a truck or an SUV.
The smallest battery is 105 kWh and the largest 180 kWh.
A Tesla battery is about 75 kWh.
The only company that might have a larger planned fleet is China's national grid operator, State Grid, which among other things also runs batteries for electric buses.
If the batteries have a maximum charging rate of 50 kWh per hour, charging takes at least four hours probably between 10 pm and 6 am.
Therefore, Amazon will need about 5 GW of wind power.
However, no power plant operates at 100 per cent capacity all the time.
Wind is variable, but predictable.
So, more realistically Amazon will need 7-8 GW of wind power capacity, about 1,750-2,000 turbines, to charge batteries.
In practice, it's more complicated.
In some countries, regulation doesn't yet allow sourcing power directly from wind and solar power plants.
Wind power plants about $9-10 billion.
So, the source-to-service solution is about $20 billion, give or take, or $2 billion a year for 10 years.
Instead, power will probably be sourced from a mix of long-term contracts, plus trading of surplus and deficits in electricity wholesale day ahead and spot markets.
There's a precedent.
Amazon's expertise in artificial intelligence (AI), especially machine learning, will be critical.
If there's a gap, expect Amazon to buy or partner with AI pure plays.
Getting the most value out of the mobile battery fleet extends beyond shipping into electricity trading.
Countries with open electricity markets, such as Australia, India, Malaysia and the US, will be in the vanguard.
Fleets of batteries, whether in vehicles or at fixed locations, managed together function as virtual power plants (VPP).
That's a good probability and risk opportunity for AI to solve.
Batteries have a second-life after trucking.
Circular business thinking plans for the evolving role and value of a battery over its lifetime.
A battery no longer good enough for a truck will work well in less demanding roles, such as at a data centre or factory.
After its second-life value is exhausted there's money from recycling materials into new products, such as batteries.
It is also positioned for a strong position with a wide moat in energy services markets emerging from and indeed critical to the energy transition.
David Fullbrook is a partner with XRG Energy, a project development and strategy consultancy that supports the wise use of clean energy in a warming world.
Like this content?
Join our growing community.
Your support helps to strengthen independent journalism, which is critically needed to guide business and policy development for positive impact.
Unlock unlimited access to our content and members-only perks.
