So which companies are leading the charge?
We've rounded up a list of 21 companies that have already made a commitment to fleet electrification or adopted electric vehicles.
This list represents companies in a wide variety of industries and some of the largest corporate fleets in the US, underscoring just how widespread the interest in electric vehicle fleets is.
Thus far, the telecom company has reduced US ground fleet emissions by 332,658 metric tons of CO2e, or 38.4%, from its 2008 baseline.
Best Buy If you look carefully, you might see Best Buy's Geek Squad cruising around in hybrids.
The cement giant will work with Volvo Construction Equipment and Volvo Trucks to create the first carbon-neutral fleet in the construction space.
Clif Bar In 2018, Clif Bar joined EV100 - a global initiative aimed at making electric transport the new normal by 2030.
Comcast At over 30,000 Xfinity vans, trucks, SUVs, and sedans, Comcast has one of the largest fleets in the country.
The telecom giant is working to eliminate tailpipe emissions from its fleet.
This will account for 16% of its Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Consumers Energy Consumers Energy wants to encourage its customers to switch to electric vehicles, and it is leading by example.
The Michigan-based utility plans to make 30% of its fleet - including all light-duty vehicle purchases - electric by 2030.
Duke Energy Duke Energy currently has over 600 electric vehicles in its fleet, including over 220 on-road vehicles.
Frito-Lay In 2010, Frito-Lay operated the largest number of all-electric vehicles in the US.
The snack food company has continued to scale up its EV efforts since then.
The plant will serve as a proof of concept for future projects.
Genentech In 2018, Genentech began operating 10 electric commuter buses - called GenenBuses - to shuttle employees to its San Francisco headquarters.
Source: Roche Hawaii Department of Transportation (HDOT) By 2035, all state departments will be required to use electric vehicles.
HDOT is ahead of the game, with dozens of EVs already in its fleet of more than 350 cars.
Heathrow Airport London's Heathrow Airport boasts one of the largest electric vehicle fleets in the UK.
As of 2018, the chauffeur-driven fleet consisted of 50 all-electric Jaguar I-PACEs to support up to 1,000 EV trips to and from Heathrow each day.
Electric vehicles are also being incorporated into other aspects of airside operations, including electric baggage tugs and ground support equipment.
Hertz In 2010, Hertz launched the first electric vehicle rental and car share program.
New York, Washington, and DC were the first cities to have access to the EV rental program.
Today, travelers around the world can rent one of Hertz's all-electric or plug-in hybrids, including a Tesla Model S or Chevy Cruze.
IKEA As part of its commitment to become climate positive by 2030, IKEA has set a goal of 100% zero emission home deliveries by 2025.
LeasePlan LeasePlan's goal is to make it as easy as possible for its customers to adopt electric vehicles through its EV consultancy, leasing, and managed fleet services.
By 2030, LeasePlan aims to achieve net zero emissions from its global managed fleet.
It has already begun making the transition in some cities, like Paris, which was expected to be all-electric in Spring 2021.
PepsiCo PepsiCo deployed its first electric vehicles a decade ago.
Verizon In 2012, Verizon teamed up with VIA Motors to develop a plug-in electric vehicle for use in Verizon's fleet.
Waste Management Waste Management's fleet includes over 17,000 collection vehicles.
Nearly 40% of these come from its own and third-party landfills.
Source: Waste Management What's next?
More are making the switch every day.
In response, automakers are ramping up development of commercial EVs.
We'll likely also see more support for policies that advance vehicle electrification, including tax incentives, charging infrastructure, and grid improvements - making it even more appealing for companies to green up and convert to electric vehicle fleets.
Lisam offers a carbon management software that allows companies to track and report on emissions from any source, including corporate fleets.
Request a demo today!
