military said.
The U.S.
vowed to "consider all appropriate responses" in the wake of the attack, specifically calling out Iran, after tensions have been high for years now over Tehran's rapidly advancing nuclear program.
military's Central Command said in a statement.
said.
About 30 minutes later, the Unity Explorer was hit by a missile.
Central Command said the Unity Explorer sustained minor damage from the missile.
Two other commercial ships, the Panamanian-flagged bulk carriers Number 9 and Sophie II, were both struck by missiles.
The Number 9 reported some damage but no casualties, and the Sophie II reported no significant damage, Central Command said.
While sailing to assist the Sophie II around 4:30 p.m.
The drones did no damage.
It hasn't been damaged in any of the incidents and no injuries have been reported on board.
The Defense Department initially described the assault as simply an attack on the Carney before providing more details.
Gen.
Saree did not mention any U.S.
The Number 9 is linked to Bernhard Schulte Shipmanagement.
The Sophie II's owner, Kyowa Kisen of Imabari, Japan, told The Associated Press that the ship's crew were safe and the vessel did not sustain serious damage.
Managers for the two other ships could not be immediately reached for comment.
Israeli media identified Ungar as being the son of Israeli shipping billionaire Abraham "Rami" Ungar.
Iran has yet to directly address the attacks.
However, Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian threatened "that if the current situation continues, the region will enter a new phase" over the Israel-Hamas war.
Iran's top diplomat described his comments as coming after conversations with "resistance forces" in the region - a description Tehran uses for the Shiite militias it backs, including groups in Iraq, the Houthis and Lebanon's Hezbollah, as well as the Sunni fighters of Hamas.
All have threatened or attacked Israel, Iran's regional archrival, during the war.
The U.S.
Washington so far has declined to directly respond to the attacks, as has Israel, whose military continues to try to describe the ships as not having links to their country.
Global shipping had increasingly been targeted as the Israel-Hamas war threatens to become a wider regional conflict - even as a truce briefly halted fighting and Hamas exchanged hostages for Palestinian prisoners held by Israel.
Missiles also landed near another U.S.
In 2016, the U.S.
___ Associated Press writers Tara Copp in Dallas, Lolita C.
Baldor in Washington, Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo and Dana Beltaji contributed to this report.
