The Congress government has been formed in Himachal Pradesh once again.
The Congress wrested a state from the Bhartiya Janata Party and formed the government with absolute majority.
For the BJP, Himachal Pradesh was a state to which its prestige was attached in many ways.
That is why during the election campaign, he kept saying that âHimachal is my second homeâ.
Thirdly, Himachal has the largest population of followers of Hinduism in the country.
Himachalâs election results have proved many things altogether.
Firstly, if the citizens are educated and aware, they cannot be misled or tricked in any way.
We have to consider that Himachal comes second only to Kerala in terms of literacy and has a large number of government employees.
Himachal is also the state that sends the maximum number of soldiers to the army.
Himachal is also known as the âLand of Heroesâ.
Neither there was crowd in his meetings nor his words had any effect on people.
Victory was achieved only at places where he could not reach allegedly due to bad weather.
And the last thing, it has been proved that the Congress in this country is deep-rooted and is bouncing back.
Congress fought a strong battle at every front.
Congress contested Himachal elections with 10 guarantees, which included issues like restoration of old pension scheme, five lakh jobs with one lakh government jobs, Rs.
1500 per month to women, 300 units of free electricity, fair price to apple growers.
As a media in-charge, it was my responsibility to take every guarantee given by the Congress to every house through the media.
The public made up its mind to have Congress win by voting for it, which later turned into victory.
Smt.
Smt.
In all these meetings, senior observer appointed by AICC in Himachal Pradesh and Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Bhupesh Baghel accompanied her.
Apart from this, his role behind the scenes in the elections was remarkable too.
The way his Chhattisgarh team handled the elections proved that winning equations can be made with the right strategy.
Election was fought in a very disciplined manner uniting and coordinating with the booth level workers.
Today, there is a Congress government in Himachal Pradesh.
The author is an Ex.
MLA & AICC Delegate
