It was a strident and urgent call to Americans months ahead of midterm elections that will determine control of Congress.
He named his predecessor within minutes of taking the stage, and suggested Americans faced an existential choice in the coming elections.
And as he concluded, he sought to strike a more upbeat note, saying it was still within voters' power to rein in the nation's darkest forces.
Backwards to an America where there is no right to choose, no right to privacy.
No right to contraception, no right to marry who you love," he said, striking on cultural issues Democrats believe can help them win in November.
"They promote authoritarian leaders," he went on.
Still, he called on his audience to go to the polls in November and lashed into his predecessor, backed by traditionally apolitical symbols like the United States Marine Band and two Marines who were positioned in a spot where they were on camera throughout the speech.
"We must be honest with each other and with ourselves: Too much of what's happening in our country today is not normal," Biden said.
At its core, the speech represented the same overarching theme that defined the launch of his presidential campaign in 2019 as he set out to defeat Trump.
It remained a constant through high profile speeches in locations rife with historical symbolism, including Warm Springs, Georgia, and Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
The prime-time remarks was no different, this time with the site of the nation's revolutionary beginning as the backdrop.
A crowd of about 300 invited guests - a mix of elected officials and dignitaries, along with Democratic supporters - watched Biden speak from behind panes of bulletproof glass.
The convergence of factors has created a genuine sense inside the West Wing that the political winds are changing just as Americans start to tune in ahead of the midterm elections.
It has also had a dramatic effect on the White House itself, where months of intraparty warfare, a resurgent and ever-present Covid-19 pandemic and a myriad of crises many aides viewed as outside of their control appear to have finally turned their way.
Even Biden, who revels in telling the story of the doctor who called him "a congenital optimist," wasn't immune from a sense of gloom and occasional doom that hung over the West Wing for months.
Yet the shifting winds this summer coincided with Trump's major re-emergence into the national spotlight.
Republican politicians and candidates running entire campaigns based on false claims of fraudulent elections have only become more prevalent.
"The President felt that this was an appropriate time before the traditional campaign season begins next week to lay out what he sees at stake, not for any individual political party, but for our democracy itself," a senior administration official said.
The President typically rehearses his major addresses beforehand and his schedule was clear of public events on Wednesday and Thursday as he prepared.
Aides said the President felt the topic was serious enough to address the nation in the evening - and ask television networks to interrupt their regular programming (though the broadcast networks declined to air the President's remarks).
White House officials have said they want to be selective in when and where to address the issues surrounding the erosion of democracy, even though many party activists have clamored for more sustained focus on the issue.
But choosing the right moment to address them on a major national scale, Biden's team believes, will prevent the issue from becoming rote and routine for voters.
Biden, officials note, has had no qualms about that strategy.
"Horribly insulting," said Gov.
Chris Sununu of New Hampshire, a Republican who has not aligned himself with Trump.
Yet recent polls have shown concerns about democracy rising among voters.
An NBC poll conducted in August found "threats to democracy" rose to the No.
1 issue facing the country, surpassing "cost of living." And a Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday found 67% of respondents think the nation's democracy is in danger of collapse, a 9-point increase from January.
Unplanned - but not entirely unwelcome - for the White House has been the ongoing developments over Trump's handling of classified documents at his Mar-a-Lago estate, a matter the White House has officially kept at arm's length t
