20 Updated at 4 a.m.
Capitol.
"To those who wreaked havoc in our Capitol today, you did not win," Vice President Pence said once lawmakers reconvened after many spent hours in lockdown.
"Violence never wins.
Freedom wins, and this is still the people's house." Biden and Harris finished with 306 electoral votes, while Trump and Pence had 232.
It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency.
In a statement released just after the certification was finalized, Trump at long last acknowledged his election loss.
fight to ensure that only legal votes were counted.
But late Wednesday night, some Senate Republicans withdrew their objections.
Each objection requires the backing of a member of both the House and the Senate to be considered.
Sens.
Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia all said that they would stand down.
"I cannot now, in good conscience, object to the certification of these electors," Loeffler said Wednesday, drawing applause from some of her colleagues.
Loeffler was one of two Republicans who lost their races on Tuesday, giving Democrats control of the U.S.
Senate.
Missouri Republican Sen.
Republican House lawmakers also objected to the electoral votes in Georgia, Michigan, Nevada and Wisconsin, but no senator would join in those objections.
Lawmakers were evacuated from the building as the violent, chaotic scene played out, prompting a citywide curfew.
One woman was killed by a Capitol Police officer in the Capitol.
Wednesday night, D.C.
police said three other people died from medical emergencies in the surrounding area.
Around 8 p.m.
ET, hours after the Capitol was breached, lawmakers were cleared to return to finish debate and tally the Electoral College votes.
In separate speeches in their respective chambers, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell vowed to press ahead with the business at hand.
Some of those efforts were based on unproven claims of fraudulent vote counts, while others were founded on baseless conspiracy theories.
Rep.
"We can't allow him to remain in office, it's a matter of preserving our republic," she wrote.
Rhode Island Rep.
He must be removed from office and prevented from further endangering our country and our people.
Brian Fitzpatrick said in a tweet.
"He lit the flame of incitement and owns responsibility for this." And Arkansas Sen.
