Every month, an editorial and related publications shed a light on a specific topic in IPIS' areas of research.
New subscribers can register here to receive the briefing and updates on IPIS' new maps and reports.
The contents of this document are the sole responsibility of IPIS and can under no circumstances be regarded as reflecting the position of the European Union.
It reports an average annual production of about 2,000 carats, with a value of ca.
USD 260,000.
This constitutes a fraction (0,00002%) of the average global production of 135 million carats, worth USD 12,7 billion, per year.
The embargo on the CAR did however not stop the country's diamond production, which provides a livelihood to an estimated 100-150,000 workers and their families.
In fact, the embargo created the enabling conditions for smuggling activities, with increased involvement of armed and international criminal groups, to become the norm in CAR's diamond trade.
This development could not be stopped by the partial lifting of the embargo in 2015.
Half of the CAR's diamond production originates from eight compliant zones in the West of the country, but it is estimated that circa 300,000 carats annually, or 90% of all rough diamonds continue to be smuggled out of the country.
Kimberley Process controls Following the adoption of Decree No.
2011/3666/PM of November 2, 2011 on the Creation, Organisation and Functioning of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, Cameroon was accepted as Kimberley Process participant in June 2012.
In light of this particularly challenging context, the imposition of the 2013 KPCS embargo on CAR, immediately put Cameroon's internal controls to the test.
These controls are one of the minimum requirements of the KPCS, by means of which KP participants should ensure that no conflict diamonds enter shipments of rough diamonds imported into or exported from their territory.
Even though the efficacy of the KPCS relies on the combined effectiveness of internal controls implemented by its 56 participants, representing 82 countries (with the EU and its 27 Member States counting as a single participant), these measures are not clearly defined or enforced by the KP.
These are supposed to perform basic duties such as gathering production statistics and checking the provenance of diamonds in all artisanal diamond mines.
This reality has led to a poor enforcement of laws and regulations, leaving the sector in disordered informality.
Miners have not filled out production registers since 2016, the year of the last and so far only KP review visit.
Yet, typically, oversight improves further down the chain, where the centralization of the trade by a limited number of registered buying houses and their provincial antennae allows more effective regulation.
(Photo source: RELUFA) IN THE NEWS BUSINESS & HUMAN RIGHTS Diamond Dealers on Doing the Right Thing | 30 August 2021 | Rapaport Trust, reputation, integrity - these words are central to the diamond trade.
"Our business is like no other in that we've always conducted it on a handshake," says Maximo Quinones, president and CEO of wholesaler DVG Diamonds in Miami, Florida.
De Beers Plans To Include Code of Origin on Its Diamonds | 26 August 2021 | JCK As part of a new plan to increase the value and visibility of its name, De Beers hopes to eventually sell most of its diamonds with a code of origin that indicates the company mined them.
Diamond Sector Says 'Thank You' to Consumers | 19 August 2021 | Rapaport A new consumer campaign by the Natural Diamond Council (NDC) and the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) is emphasizing the positive impact of mined stones.
The truth about sustainable jewelry and ethical practice | 13 August 2021 | The CEO Magazine It seems that sustainability and ethics are at the heart of just about every jewelry brand you Google these days and yet this industry, like fashion, requires a discerning pair of eyes to differentiate how clean a company's products are.
In the 'Conscious Jewelry Trend Report 2020' conducted by ExJewel, data suggests that the demand for sustainable jewelry is, in fact, being driven by consumers, as searches for 'ethical diamond' have increased by 75 per cent, 'lab-grown diamond' by 83 per cent and 'ethical gold' by 73 per cent year on year.
The incident shocked many after it was captured in a video that has been circulating on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp since July 21.
However, sev
