The IPIS briefing offers a selection of articles, news and updates on natural resources, armed conflict, Business & Human Rights and arms trade. Every month, an editorial and related publications shed a light on a specific topic in IPIS' areas of research. In focus: Cameroon's diamond sector: small player, big challenges. In the news: Conflict diamonds may be virtually extinct in 2021, but your sparkler could still be a blood diamond financing rogue regimes; How Allies of South Africa's Infamous Gupta Family Gamed the Country's Diamond Trade; Sahel: Amnesty identifies Serbian weapons in stockpiles of brutal armed groups. New subscribers can register here to receive the briefing and updates on IPIS' new maps and reports. This briefing is produced with the financial assistance of the European Union. The contents of this document are the sole responsibility of IPIS and can under no circumstances be regarded as reflecting the position of the European Union. IN FOCUS CAMEROON'S DIAMOND SECTOR: SMALL PLAYER, BIG CHALLENGES Jaff Bamenjo and Christian Anangue (RELUFA) Hans Merket (IPIS) In the multi-billion diamond industry, Cameroon is a tiny player. It reports an average annual production of about 2,000 carats, with a value of ca. USD 260,000. This constitutes a fraction (0,00002%) of the average global production of 135 million carats, worth USD 12,7 billion, per year. Nonetheless, Cameroon is confronted with one of the biggest challenges facing the diamond industry in recent years, namely the illegal trade in conflict diamonds from the neighbouring Central African Republic (CAR). Conflict-ridden neighbour After a coup, in 2013, plunged the CAR into a protracted civil war, and reports of rebel groups financing their activities through control over diamond mining and trade, the country was subjected to an embargo on rough diamond exports by the Kimberley Process (KP) Certification Scheme (KPCS). This is the last and since then only embargo of this scheme, which was launched in 2003, to bar conflict diamonds - defined(notoriously narrow) as "rough diamonds used by rebel movements or their allies to undermine legitimate governments" - from entering the mainstream rough diamond trade. The embargo on the CAR did however not stop the country's diamond production, which provides a livelihood to an estimated 100-150,000 workers and their families. In fact, the embargo created the enabling conditions for smuggling activities, with increased involvement of armed and international criminal groups, to become the norm in CAR's diamond trade. This development could not be stopped by the partial lifting of the embargo in 2015. Half of the CAR's diamond production originates from eight compliant zones in the West of the country, but it is estimated that circa 300,000 carats annually, or 90% of all rough diamonds continue to be smuggled out of the country. According to reports by the UN Panel of Experts on CAR and NGOs, the main transit hub for diamonds smuggled from this conflict-ridden country is Cameroon. Kimberley Process controls Following the adoption of Decree No. 2011/3666/PM of November 2, 2011 on the Creation, Organisation and Functioning of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, Cameroon was accepted as Kimberley Process participant in June 2012. This was shortly before the outbreak of civil war in the CAR. Cameroon shares a porous 729-km long border as well as its only diamond deposit with CAR. This deposit is artisanally mined on both sides of the Bombe river that separates the two countries. In light of this particularly challenging context, the imposition of the 2013 KPCS embargo on CAR, immediately put Cameroon's internal controls to the test. These controls are one of the minimum requirements of the KPCS, by means of which KP participants should ensure that no conflict diamonds enter shipments of rough diamonds imported into or exported from their territory. Even though the efficacy of the KPCS relies on the combined effectiveness of internal controls implemented by its 56 participants, representing 82 countries (with the EU and its 27 Member States counting as a single participant), these measures are not clearly defined or enforced by the KP. Cameroon is unfortunately a case in point. Recent research by the Cameroonian NGO RELUFA has shown that controls fall short in monitoring production and trade from the small artisanal mines scattered across the country's Eastern region. These controls are even less up to the daunting task to avoid infiltration by the illicit flows from CAR that dwarf Cameroon's domestic production. One of the most important shortcomings is the limited presence of and oversight by governmental actors in diamond mining areas. In Boumba-et-Ngoko, for instance, which is one of the main diamond mining departments in Cameroon, the National Permanent Secretariat for the Kimberley Process has only 3 field agents to cover an area of over 30,000 km2. These are supposed to perform basic duties such as gathering production statistics and checking the provenance of diamonds in all artisanal diamond mines. This reality has led to a poor enforcement of laws and regulations, leaving the sector in disordered informality. Miners and middlemen, a number of them being refugees from CAR, despite this profession being legally reserved for Cameroonians, work clandestinely without the required licenses. Miners have not filled out production registers since 2016, the year of the last and so far only KP review visit. Such registers are the first link of the paper trail that should guarantee the Cameroonian mining origin of exports under the country's KP system. The substandard registration of production is a common challenge for countries with an artisanal diamond mining sector. Yet, typically, oversight improves further down the chain, where the centralization of the trade by a limited number of registered buying houses and their provincial antennae allows more effective regulation. This is not the case in Cameroon where numerous investors, who reside in Yaoundé and Douala, far away from the mining areas, are able to buy and sell diamonds partly or entirely off-books. This underregulation forms a fertile ground for corruption of all kinds and is what renders Cameroon's diamond trade prone to abuse by smuggling networks. (Photo source: RELUFA) IN THE NEWS BUSINESS & HUMAN RIGHTS Diamond Dealers on Doing the Right Thing | 30 August 2021 | Rapaport Trust, reputation, integrity - these words are central to the diamond trade. "Our business is like no other in that we've always conducted it on a handshake," says Maximo Quinones, president and CEO of wholesaler DVG Diamonds in Miami, Florida. De Beers Plans To Include Code of Origin on Its Diamonds | 26 August 2021 | JCK As part of a new plan to increase the value and visibility of its name, De Beers hopes to eventually sell most of its diamonds with a code of origin that indicates the company mined them. Atrocities Haunt Zimbabwe's Marange Fields | 25 August 2021 | Rapaport Despite its claims of progress, the Kimberley Process continues to greenwash Zimbabwe's conflict diamonds. Castel of France to Probe Claims of African Militia Support | 22 August 2021 | Bloomberg Centrafrique: une entreprise française aurait conclu un "accord tacite" avec des groupes armés (ONG) | 18 August 2021 | Anadolu Agency Le Groupe Castel, géant français du sucre et des boissons, lié au financement de milices armées en République centrafricaine | August 2021 | The Sentry Une ONG américaine spécialisée dans l'investigation sur l'argent sale, "The Sentry" a révélé, mercredi, l'existence de ce qu'elle a qualifié d' "Accord tacite" entre le groupe français Castel et des groupes armés centrafricains. Diamond Sector Says 'Thank You' to Consumers | 19 August 2021 | Rapaport A new consumer campaign by the Natural Diamond Council (NDC) and the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) is emphasizing the positive impact of mined stones. The truth about sustainable jewelry and ethical practice | 13 August 2021 | The CEO Magazine It seems that sustainability and ethics are at the heart of just about every jewelry brand you Google these days and yet this industry, like fashion, requires a discerning pair of eyes to differentiate how clean a company's products are. In the 'Conscious Jewelry Trend Report 2020' conducted by ExJewel, data suggests that the demand for sustainable jewelry is, in fact, being driven by consumers, as searches for 'ethical diamond' have increased by 75 per cent, 'lab-grown diamond' by 83 per cent and 'ethical gold' by 73 per cent year on year. RDC : 205 ONG militent pour l'expulsion de Kimia Mining de la réserve à Okapis | 11 August 2021 | Afrik21 Deux cent cinq organisations non gouvernementales (ONG) de protection de l'environnement, demandent aux autorités RD congolaises de mettre un terme à l'exploitation minière, par la société Kimia Mining, dans la Réserve de faune à Okapis, située au nord-est de la République démocratique du Congo (RDC). L'entreprise chinoise est accusée de déforestation et destruction de la faune sauvage dans l'une des quatre aires protégées du Congo, qui demeurent sur la liste du patrimoine mondiale en péril. Conflict diamonds may be virtually extinct in 2021, but your sparkler could still be a blood diamond financing rogue regimes | 2 August 2021 | RT Many consumers don't know that their supposedly ethical lab-grown and mined stones could be part of a shady, toxic and unethical industry which only looks to be getting worse. DR Congo: Video of miners beaten for trespassing shows stranglehold of foreign mining interests | 28 July 2021 | France24 In southern DR Congo, soldiers beat and whipped two miners who were trespassing on a site managed by the Chinese-owned Commus company in Kolwezi, as site managers looked on. The incident shocked many after it was captured in a video that has been circulating on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp since July 21. However, sev