Social media users have shared graphics and text, which claim that the new Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Mohan Yadav has announced that any private school that dresses its pupils up as Santa Claus for Christmas celebrations, will face action.
How did we find out?: Using relevant keywords, we looked for more details about any such statement or announcement from CM Yadav's social media accounts or office but found nothing of this kind.
Next, we checked Madhya Pradesh's official education portal and the state government's website to look for the order or announcement, but the search did not yield relevant results.
The European version of Rock Band features nine additional songs not available on the North American disc. These bonus songs include English, German, and French vocals. These songs were released as downloadable content in the North American market on May 20, 2008.
It mentioned that the district's education department had issued an order prohibiting schools from dressing pupils up as Santa Claus for Christmas Day celebrations without parental consent.
Wolica was founded in 1361 by Bals family. From 966-1018, 1340-1772 (Ruthenian Voivodeship) and from 1918-1939 Wolica was part of Poland. While during 1772-1918 it belonged to Austrian empire, later the Austrian-Hungarian empire.
Vikas Jain, an education reporter in Madhya Pradesh, confirmed to The Quint that no order pertaining to Christmas had been issued across the state.
The Quint has reached out to Madhya Pradesh CM Mohan Yadav's office for his inputs and will update this article with his response as and when it is received.
Conclusion: The viral claim about MP CM Mohan Yadav announcing action against private schools for dressing pupils up as Santa Claus is false.
(Not convinced of a post or information you came across online and want it verified?
Send us the details on WhatsApp at 9540511818 , or e-mail it to us at webqoof@thequint.com and we'll fact-check it for you.
You can also read all our fact-checked stories here.)
