It's been fewer than three months since a novel coronavirus emerged in China, causing fever, coughing, and, in severe cases, pneumonia. Since then, the disease known as Covid-19 has swept into 72 countries, infecting nearly 93,000 people and killing more than 3,000. What makes the coronavirus scary enough to cause a worldwide run on face masks and lead countries to lock down whole megacities and ban travelers isn't that it's super deadly. So far, the World Health Organization estimates Covid-19's fatality rate to be about 3.4 percent globally, which is still lower than other recent coronavirus outbreaks, including SARS and MERS. (That said, it appears to be more fatal than flu, which has a case fatality rate of around 0.1 percent.) And it's very contagious. Still, most people who get Covid-19 will recover in a week or two, without need for hospitalization. What has people panicked is that it's new. In the US and other developed countries, particularly in the global north, mystery illnesses don't strike that often. People are used to having answers and a plan for avoiding getting sick. In these places, vaccines have already eliminated infectious diseases that were once common, including polio, hepatitis, and the measles. If you get your flu shot every year, the worst thing you'll usually pick up is a case of the common cold. Which is perhaps why Americans can't seem to wait to get their hands on a Covid-19 vaccine. President Donald Trump told pharmaceutical executives and public health officials in a White House meeting on Monday that he wants one ready before the election in November. For the record, that would be impossible. Developing vaccines that are safe and effective takes time, investment, and good science. Developing a vaccine for a coronavirus like the one that causes Covid-19 comes with even more challenges. But at least 30 companies and academic institutions are trying. Here's your guide to everything you need to know about those efforts. Check back often-we'll be keeping it updated with any notable progress or setbacks. What's In a Vaccine? Vaccines all work on the same basic principle: Scientists try to make something that closely resembles a pathogen, and then expose a person's immune system to it through a small dose administered as an injection. Ideally, the immune system develops a strong memory of the pathogen, so that the next time the person is exposed, their body will mount an attack before the infection can take hold. The trick is to do this without making the person seriously ill from the vaccine itself. There are a few different methods for making vaccines, but they all must strike this delicate balance. One way to make a vaccine is to weaken, or attenuate, the microorganism while still keeping it alive. The most common method for doing this is growing several generations of the pathogen in environments other than human cells, so that it evolves away from causing disease in humans. By repeatedly culturing live viruses or bacteria in animal cells, scientists can essentially create a bunch of mutants. Then it's a matter of selecting the mutant strains that can replicate in human cells but don't cause disease like their wild ancestor. The trick is that these imposters still have to look enough like the original virus to accurately train the immune system to fend it off. Examples of attenuated vaccines include those for measles, mumps, and tuberculosis. Another type is called an inactivated vaccine, which is made from a dead version of the whole virus or bacteria after it's been killed with heat or chemicals. This type of vaccine can also be made using smaller pieces of the microbe, which by themselves are not considered alive. One common approach is to locate the protein that a virus uses like a key to get into human cells, which is usually on its surface. Once scientists know the genetic code for this protein, they can paste it into bacteria or yeast and use these microbial factories to produce huge quantities of it to be used as the basis of the vaccine. The protein alone is often enough to be easily recognized by the immune system and to trigger a defense on subsequent exposure. Alternately, sometimes scientists will genetically modify the virus instead, swapping bits of the disease-causing pathogen into a harmless virus shell. These types of inactivated vaccines almost always require multiple doses, because they're not as good at stimulating the immune system as a live microbe. But they come with a lower risk of severe reactions. Examples of inactivated vaccines include those for polio, rabies, and hepatitis A and B. All the approved vaccines on the market use one of these two techniques. But newer methods still in development may get their debut with the Covid-19 outbreak. One such promising technology is nucleotide-based vaccines. Nucleotides are the chemical building blocks that make up genetic material, both DNA and RNA. The virus that causes Covid-19, known as SARS-CoV-2, consists of a strand of RNA enclosed in a spike-covered capsule. It uses these spikes to invade human lung cells. Vaccine makers can copy the genetic instructions for making these spikes and package them up into a shot. Once inside the body, human cells will make the viral proteins, which the immune system will then recognize as foreign. It will produce antibodies against them and learn how to attack any future invaders carrying these protein spikes. When Will a Covid-19 Vaccine Be Ready? On Tuesday, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director Anthony Fauci told US senators, "It will take at least a year and a half to have a vaccine we can use." That might seem like an eternity for public health officials staring down a probable pandemic. But if true, it would actually set a record. Most vaccines take between five and 15 years to come to market, says Jon Andrus, an adjunct professor of global vaccinology and vaccine policy at the Milken Institute of Public Health at George Washington University. The reason it usually takes so long comes down to a combination of factors. The first is getting a candidate vaccine that's ready to test. This part of the vaccine development process, known as discovery, used to take years of careful benchtop biology. Scientists had to isolate and grow viruses in the lab. But now, with genetic sequencing, new protein-visualizing microscopes, and other technology advances, it's possible to skip that step. Arriving at a vaccine candidate can sometimes be done in weeks. All those advances, though, can't speed up the time it takes to meticulously monitor how well these candidate vaccines work in people. Clinical trials, a prerequisite for bringing a vaccine to market, are the real bottleneck. Each happens in three stages. Phase 1 involves just a few dozen healthy volunteers, and is meant to evaluate whether the vaccine is safe. That takes about three months. If the healthy volunteers don't suffer any adverse effects, it's on to Phase 2. This time, several hundred people will get the shot, ideally in an area experiencing a Covid-19 outbreak, so scientists can gather data on how well it spurs the production of antibodies and fends off the disease for these trial subjects. That's another six to eight months. If everything still looks good, Phase 3 is to recruit a few thousand people in an outbreak zone and repeat the experiment. That's another six to eight months-if you don't have any problems recruiting patients or with your vaccine supply. Then a regulatory agency, like the US Food and Drug Administration, has to review all the data before making a decision about whether to approve the vaccine. That can take months to a year. If you've been doing the math, this means that, since vaccine candidates started being developed in January, a version approved for public use won't be available until the end of summer 2021, at the earliest. And that's if nothing goes wrong. "Constricting the whole timeline of going from concept to a product that can be distributed into a year or two is really a herculean endeavor," Andrus says. Only a handful of companies have vaccine candidates ready to move into human testing, but more than 30 have joined the race. Even if one of these companies does pull off the Thirteenth Labor, they're left with a novel product that still requires manufacturing and distribution. "The first question we should be asking is: Does this producer have the capacity to scale it up?" asks Andrus. If not, a limited supply will force public health officials to make tough decisions about rationing out a vaccine. Isn't There Any Way to Speed It Up? In general, these timelines are very difficult to compress. The last thing drugmakers and regulators want is to rush out a subpar product and create-rather than solve-a public health crisis. Making vaccines is so cost-intensive and high risk that most pharmaceutical firms don't do it anymore. Today, the vaccine business is dominated by just four companies: Pfizer, Merck, GlaxoSmithKline, and Sanofi. Since they're the ones with the kind of capacity required to fight a global pandemic, they're the ones that have to be convinced it'll be worth it. Covid-19 might seem like a sure bet now. But outbreaks are unpredictable. SARS disappeared just four months after it caused a global panic. The companies that had begun developing vaccines against it had to abandon their trials because there just weren't enough patients. Similar disease cycles help explain why it took so long to get an Ebola vaccine, which was only approved last December despite dozens of outbreaks since it first emerged in 1976. Plus, government funding and pharmaceutical industry interest tend to evaporate once the sense of emergency fades away. No one wants to make a product that's not going to be used. But there are some things governments can do to encourage vaccine makers to take up the challenge despite its riskiness, including providing grants and other financial i