is apparent in the company's latest quarterly earnings report.
"In the eight months since my return, these important changes are creating a more cost effective, coordinated, and streamlined approach to our operations that has put us on track to exceed our initial goal of $5.5 billion in savings as well as improved our direct-to-consumer operating income by roughly $1 billion in just three quarters," Iger said in a statement.
It was a mixed bag when it came to meeting Wall Street estimates, with the company beating on earnings per share and income, but missing on revenue.
Iger elaborated on his desire to explore options for its linear businesses on the earnings call.
ESPN this week announced a deal to partner with Penn Entertainment on an ESPN-branded sports book called ESPN Bet.
The deal, which includes $1.5 billion in cash and $500 million in stock warrants, will kick in later this year.
"Why Penn?
Because Penn stepped up in a very aggressive way and made an offer to us that was better than any of the competitive offers by far," Iger said.
"We received notable interest from many different entities and we look forward to sharing more details at a later date," Iger said of potential strategic partner interest in ESPN.
In direct-to-consumer, revenues rose 9 percent to $5.5 billion, while the losses improved to $512 million.
The company also saved money compared to last year thanks to not renewing its IPL deal in India.
The company's ESPN+ and Hulu subscriber bases remained steady from last quarter.
Iger also announced on the earnings call that the company would be hiking prices for its ad-free tiers of Disney+ and Hulu, while launching a new duo bundle of the services.
At the film studio, Iger said that "we're focused on improving the quality of our films, and on better economics, not just reducing the number of titles we release, but also the cost per title." "And we're maximizing the full impact of our titles by embracing the multiple distribution windows at our disposal, enabling consumers to access their content in multiple ways," he added.
The company says that it expects its total content spend this year to be $27 billion, lower than forecast, thanks in part to the ongoing strikes.
However Iger also opted to try and be diplomatic when discussing the matter, telling analysts that "it is my fervent hope that we quickly find solutions to the issues that have kept us apart these past few months.
