Yet, this loss has been planned.
Currently, it has almost 4000 titles, compared to around 2500 titles in countries like Canada and the UK, which also have access to the general entertainment Star hub.
Recently, Bob Iger spoke at the Morgan Stanley Investors Conference and spoke about how they need to go after loyal subscribers: It's also obvious to us we can't get the profitability and turn this into a growth business without growing subs.
So, while we're taking off-the-table sub guidance, we're still going to look to grow subs.
We just want to grow quality subs that are loyal and where we actually have an ability to continue to price effectively to those subs.
In addition, we're going to lean more into our franchises, our core franchises, and our brands.
I talked about curation and general entertainment.
We have to be better at curating the Disney and the Pixar and the Marvel and the Star Wars of it all as well.
And of course, reduce costs on everything that we make because, while we're extremely proud of what's on the screen, it's gotten to a point where it's extraordinarily expensive.
And we want all the quality.
Disney+ Hotstar is going to go through a shift in the coming year, as it will no doubt have its budgets cut and become more in line with how Disney+ operates in other countries around the world.
A hub of content from Disney's studios such as FX, National Geographic, Marvel and Star Wars, but also with local content.
But the days of it being a massive streaming platform to rival a linear bundle, are going.
From a financial point of view, it makes sense to start stripping back content deals that are inherited from the purchase of 20th Century Fox.
All of these differences in the type of content being offered to subscribers, are one major reason why Disney+ Hotstar in India has its own separate app.
It's very different to Disney+ around the world.
In the US, Hotstar was closed down, with some content moving to Hulu and the sport to ESPN.
Hotstar still exists in some countries like Canada and the UK, but in a scaled-back format.
Disney+ Hotstar is evolving, becoming more inline with how the streaming service operates outside of India and no doubt, more changes are to follow.
What do you think of the changes happening to Disney Hotstar?
Let us know on social media!
