The boat is a bottom trawler.
That night, around 2 a.m., he noticed his camera slide past something unusual.
Along the murky seafloor, fish and rocks come in rounded shapes and soft colors, muted grays and greens.
Then he saw it: a rectangular object, sharp-edged and pale, almost white, with a tinge of yellow.
It was September 2014, and Pennisi, who goes by Joe, was 50 years old, with four decades of fishing behind him.
He had sailed on commercial boats since he was 7; his father and grandfather had towed their nets in the same waters for more than a century.
Still, Joe sensed immediately what it might be.
He rewound the video, peered forward and froze the frame with the yellow rectangular object.
Joe, Grazia and their six children shared a beige stucco house in Castroville, north of Monterey.
At the time, he kept his boat at the Moss Landing harbor 10 minutes away; later he would shift the boat to Fishermanâs Wharf in San Francisco.
He liked living in Castroville because his backyard was spacious enough to accommodate old trawling gear and a rusty crane for construction projects.
But the house felt cramped, with only three bedrooms for eight people.
Grazia handled most of the kid duties because Joe spent so much time working, and unlike her husband, who had become semi-nocturnal after years of fishing through the night, she maintained a normal schedule.
âI gotta get the kids up for school,â Grazia said, stirring on her side of the bed.
âWhat is it?â He played the video for her.
âI think itâs gold,â he said.
âHow do you know what it is?â she asked, then rolled over.
A Really Big Secret Joe tried to imagine what it would feel like to hold a gold bar.
How smooth?
All in all, he ended up counting more than 50 glints of yellow, and of those, about 30 seemed to have rectangular shapes and straight edges consistent with the contours of gold ingots.
He had no idea how much one bar of gold might be worth.
Half a million dollars per bar?
How much for 30 of them?
He began thinking: What would he do with that kind of money?
Retire in a few years instead of fishing until the day he died.
Having done some diving in the course of his career, he knew that was well beyond the reach of typical diving gear.
But that wasnât the only problem.
Because the objects lay within the Monterey Bay sanctuary, the federal government would probably be a hurdle.
Commercial fishermen like Joe must follow strict rules that dictate where theyâre allowed to fish and what theyâre allowed to catch.
A question began to eat at Joe: What if he couldnât actually lay his hands on whatever was down there?
âThere is an expression in treasure hunting: Treasure is trouble,â said John Chatterton, a renowned diver who has explored the wreck of the Titanic and co-discovered a lost German U-boat off the coast of New Jersey.
It was the biggest secret he had ever needed to keep.
He had spent his life on the water, yet when it came to treasure, he was a rank amateur.
Joe knew, within a tiny circle of the Pacific, where a treasure might be.
Draggers Joe is a large guy, 6 feet tall and paunchy, with a bushy black mustache and an upper body made stocky by a life spent handling huge bins of fish.
On a recent morning, he sat in the captainâs chair of the Pioneer, a padded blue seat salvaged from an old van.
A ball cap hung low over his eyes.
He sipped a mug of thick coffee brewed by his deck boss, Joleen Lambert Skinner, his most trusted colleague and friend.
The boat that day was about 24 miles west of Half Moon Bay, in the open Pacific.
Taped to one of the windows was a small photo of his late father, beneath a printed verse from Corinthians: That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
GIUSEPPE PENNISI NOVEMBER 10, 1938âDECEMBER 24, 2013 It was the first leg of a 48-hour fishing trip.
Depending on the weather and the seasons, Joe typically makes this journey every other week, spending several days preparing the boat, then sailing Thursday morning and returning to shore late Saturday, at which point he and his crew stay up all night unloading tens of thousands of pounds of fish.
During that period, Joe runs on four hours of daily sleep.
Once a mainstay on Bay Area menus, the population of many types of groundfish collapsed in the late 1990s and rebounded only recently, which is why you donât often see them at supermarket seafood counters: coral-pink bocaccio, a type of rockfish with a spiny top fin and brutish jaw; chilipepper, a smaller cousin with cartoon-like bulging eyes; tender petrale sole; sand dabs, which are like miniature flounder.
Joleen is the Pioneerâs second-in-command, in charge of scheduling the boatâs voyages and keeping the crew in line.
The deckhand unhooked two rusty trawl doors from the sides of the boat and let them drop in the water, and Joleen stood by as metal cables unspooled, clattering as loudly as the diesel engine that rumbled below deck.
Next, they dropped the yellow nylon net.
âLetâs go fishing!â Joleen yelled.
As he waited for the net to fill over the course of two hours, he spotted a gray porpoise with white racing stripes playfully cross the shipâs path, grinning and pointing to it as if he were showing his kids the wonders of the ocean.
