Earlier this year, the YouTuber "MrBeast" (whose real name is Jimmy Donaldson) released a video titled "1,000 Blind People See For The First Time".
Simply put, the video has sparked a wider reckoning on the ethics of philanthropy as a public spectacle.
The eight-minute video opens with Donaldson standing in front of a cheering crowd, declaring he is on a mission to fund cataract surgery for 1,000 people.
Made in partnership with the nonprofit SEE International, the video is a rapid-fire montage of personal stories and post-op reactions, capturing the overwhelming emotions and expressive gratitude of persons after receiving free cataract surgery.
Some participants in the video were also gifted extraordinary prizes.
It's all masterfully structured, designed to stir your emotions and retain your attention until the very end of the video.
But that's precisely what rang alarm bells for many viewers, whose dread and apprehension lay in witnessing how something so ostensibly heart-warming actually felt grimly dystopian.
As the video itself acknowledges, cataract surgery is cheap, safe, and can enhance the autonomy of many millions across the globe.
In well-functioning societies and with meaningful global solidarity, this would be an utterly mundane practice, easily accessible for all.
Some jokingly observed that Donaldson only aided the vision of 1,000 people to garner more potential viewers of his content.
The MrBeast model of philanthropy wholly relies upon entertaining as many people as possible, and then using the subsequent advertisement revenue, brand deals, and merchandise sales to fund future philanthropic ventures.
For what it's worth, SEE International were fulsome in their praise of Donaldson and the video, while the Fred Hollows Foundation were likewise "heartened to see greater awareness raised of avoidable blindness, particularly when 9 out of 10 people who are blind don't need to be." In a crowded attention economy, charitable causes are often desperately keen to find ways to cut through the noise, and thus a partnership with the biggest YouTuber in the world would be reckless to waste.
Want the best of Religion & Ethics delivered to your mailbox?
Coined by the late Stella Young, the term refers to instances where persons with disabilities are reduced to caricatures, paraded either for their resilience in "overcoming" their differences or as passive subjects waiting for cashed-up abled folk to "cure" them and save the day.
The child does not appear in the video.
Cracking the YouTube code By some distance, Donaldson is the most popular YouTuber on the planet, boasting over 130 million subscribers to his main channel alone, and over 80 million more across his other channels.
In a recent three-month period, his YouTube videos were watched by a staggering 600 million people.
You may not know who he is, but if you have kids or grandkids aged between 6 and 16, they know him and likely love him.
It is hard to overstate how much influence this 24-year-old from North Carolina possesses and the intensity of affection among his many millions of fans.
Revealing an acute insight into what makes for "viral" content - and his sheer relentless determination - Donaldson first found a mass audience through deliberately inane endurance challenges, such as counting to 100,000 in one sitting (which took over 40 hours).
As he gained followers and revenue the same basic formula remained, only drastically scaled up with ever more ambitious and outlandish spectacles.
Today, one way to describe a typical MrBeast video would be "childhood hypotheticals made reality".
Featuring titles like "I Built Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory!", "Hydraulic Press Vs Lamborghini", and "World's Biggest Dodgeball Game", all MrBeast videos are crafted to pique viewer interest and can cost millions to produce.
But like it or not, this manic style has proven incredibly effective, and they have it down to a fine art.
While many videos seem to celebrate little but pointless extravagance - such as handing out iPhones to kids on Halloween or eating $100,000 worth of ice-cream - Donaldson himself appears driven by a singular obsession with making content with the widest possible appeal.
In other words, the decadence is not shamelessly wasteful, but carefully strategic, for it enhances their capacity to achieve more philanthropic ventures in the future.
Though Donaldson is oddly one-dimensional, with a mask that never drops, his demeanour is always affable and his content is family friendly.
This was perhaps most starkly obvious in a video - which cost $3.5 million to produce and has been watched over 360 million times - in which he recreated the Netflix series Squid Game, with 456 contestants competing for $456,000.
Of course, unlike the series, the elimination of contestants did not end with their gruesome deaths.
However, also absent was any recognition of the irony of it all, given Squid Game's blunt commentary on how class disparity enables economically precarious persons to be exploited for the entertainment of the wealthy.
While this depthless quality is mostly harmless
