On Sunday, Aug.
4, at the shiny, new American Dream mall in New Jersey, an estimated 10,000 people showed up for the opening of the first physical MrBeast Burger location.
Since its 2020 debut, the fast food service has operated solely out of ghost kitchens across the country.
It's been wildly successful thanks to the YouTuber's knack for marketing via money-guzzling (though often philanthropic) stunts.
But the Burgers aren't the draw; MrBeast is.
This Tweet is currently unavailable.
Henry, 13 I heard about the event because my mom saw it on Twitter.
I hoped we would get to meet him and then we'd get a burger.
We arrived at 7:30 p.m.
Saturday and thought they'd give out numbered wristbands at 10 p.m.
and we'd go home and come back in morning around 10 a.m.
opening.
We realized by about 8:30 p.m.
So we did and wound up getting our burgers by about 12:30 p.m.
We were #435-437 in line.
We used our backpacks for pillows (not comfortable) and went to the Walgreens in the mall and bought some beach towels for a blanket and some melatonin.
I also tried to use my mom as a pillow.
This Tweet is currently unavailable.
It might be loading or has been removed.
I don't know if I feel like it was worth it.
It was fun.
It wasn't that comfortable and waiting in line forever wasn't fun.
I wish there was more stuff for us to do while we waited in line.
I like MrBeast because he gives away lots of money and makes lots of high quality videos and he seems really nice and fun.
Melissa (Henry's Mom), 45 I enjoy how much Henry likes MrBeast because it has made my son think more philanthropically.
He likes how much he gives away to people and has said if he ever made money, he'd want to help others like MrBeast.
Chloe, 20 I heard about the event from Karl Jacobs's stream on Friday.
I thought, I have Labor Day off from classes, I have my own car, and it's less than an hour away.
I was 438th in line.
Afterwards, I hung out and met creators outside of the event and left at around 5 p.m.
I honestly didn't expect too much.
Worth every second on the floor.
This Tweet is currently unavailable.
It might be loading or has been removed.
Small Noot, 18 On Saturday, I left my house at 8:00 a.m.
and got there at 9:30 a.m.
Punz was outside the restaurant on the third floor for the majority of that time, and there were other creators like Astelic, Quig, and Sylvee there, but I wasn't able to see them.
Half the stores were closed the whole day and there didn't seem to be anyone shopping who wasn't there for MrBeast.
It might be loading or has been removed.
My boyfriend and I ended up getting there around 9:30 a.m., and the place was absolutely packed with lines of people.
It might be loading or has been removed.
This Tweet is currently unavailable.
It might be loading or has been removed.
My main goal was to try and say hi to them and get a photo.
The burger would have been a plus, but there's a ghost kitchen near my house so I've at least gotten to try it before.
I definitely felt like it was worth it!
I was acknowledged by the boys more than once, which made me really happy.
All around [it] was a super fun experience, even when just watching.
Just to know they acknowledge you're there and happy you came for them, even if it's in a less personal way, feels nice.
I tried to explain the scope of what was going to happen and manage their expectations.
We went to have dinner and check out the mall so I would know where to park and come in the next morning.
So we got in line, and they sent around a clipboard and took down our names.
We were number 127 on the list.
It might be loading or has been removed.
I was definitely not prepared.
They were really troopers.
No complaining.
By 9 a.m.
we were upstairs in another line waiting for the restaurant to open.
We started seeing MrBeast and other YouTubers around 10:30 a.m.
The first couple of fans got in at 11 a.m.
We entered at 11:45 a.m, ordered, and got our food by 12:05 a.m.
We bought some merchandise and then waited in line to meet MrBeast.
It took us over 25 minutes just to exit the mall.
I made sure to thank MrBeast and the other YouTubers for being so wonderful to their fans.
I ordinarily wouldn't want to sit on a hard floor all night long, but the look on my kids' faces made it worthwhile.
I don't know his name.
My son said it was the best day of his life.
