Karnataka Budget 2023 Highlights: CM Siddaramaiah concludes nearly three-hour-long speech with 'Jai Hind, Jai Karnataka' CM Siddaramaiah concluded his budget presentation, which was nearly three hours long. He announced fund allocations for Congress' poll promises, among others. Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah concluded his budget presentation after nearly three hours with a 'Jai Hind, Jai Karnataka' slogan. He presented his 14th budget in Bengaluru's Vidhana Soudha on Friday, as the one presented by former CM Basavaraj Bommai is only valid till the end of the month. Siddaramaiah announced several measures and fund allocations, including that for the implementation of the Congress party's election guarantees, among others....Read More This is his seventh budget as a chief minister. It will also be the highest number of budgets presented by any chief minister or finance minister in the state so far. This budget will be in place effectively from August 1. Siddaramaiah concludes budget speech with 'Jai Hind, Jai Karnataka' CM Siddaramaiah concluded his nearly three-hour-long budget speech with 'Jai Hind , Jai Karnataka' in Bengaluru's Vidhana Soudha on Friday. The Congress stalwart announced several measures in his 14th budget presnetation, along with fund allocations for the party's five main poll guarantees. Brand Bengaluru program to focus on nine major challenges To make Bengaluru a global city, Brand Bengaluru got a mention in the new budget of Karnataka governement. Siddaramaiah said that this initiave will focus on nine major challenges that the IT capital is facing at the moment. Traffic management, Environment, Solid waste management, Public health, People-friendly e-Governance, Water security, Flood management, Animal health and Proper utilization of public places in Bengaluru are the nine major challenges that goverement will focus on. State Education Policy will replace NEP : CM Siddaramaiah In his budget speech, Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah announced that the State Education Policy will replace the National Education Policy which was started by the central governement in 2020. Brain Health Initiative program to be extended to entire Karnataka Karnataka government's Brain Health Intiative program in collaboration with NIMHANS will now be extended to all parts of the state. Earlier this pilot project which was launched for the mental health of people is restricted to Bengaluru, Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts. This will cost Rs. 25 crores on the state exchequer. Trauma care centres in Mysuru and Kalaburgi Karnataka government alloted Rs. 30 crores to establish trauma centers in Mysuru and Kalaburgi. An automated and completly centralised blood bank will be started with Rs. 5 crores at Bangalore Medical College Halasuru Gurudwara to be developed with Rs. 25 crores Karnataka governement will be developing the famous Halasuru Gurudwara with Rs. 25 crores and it also extended the budget to other religious places. ₹100 crores for Karnataka State Christian Development Corporation and other ₹50 crores to protect and develop more than 40,000 Wakf properties are included in the budget documents. Siddaramaiah to propose a few amendments to Forest Rights Act Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah said that the government is committed to provide homes for forest dwellers. He said, "The Forest Rights Act is causing a hurdle for granting houses to forest dwellers. We will conduct a meeting with the central government and discuss the amendments that need to be done in the act." Gender minorities, unmarried & divorced women to get ₹800 monthly pension The government in Karnataka will be hiking the monthly pension payable to unmarried and divorced women and gender minorities from ₹600 to ₹800. 1.32 lakh beneficiaries will be benefited, the budget document read. New mega jewellery park in Bengaluru to employ 10,000 people The Karnataka government will establishment a mega jewellery park in Bengaluru, which will create 10,000 new job opportunities, the budget document revealed. This is in a bid to attract investors in the jewellery sector. ₹100 crore to establish Karnataka State Christian Development Corporation CM Siddaramaiah said the government will also establish a Karnataka State Christian Development Corporation at ₹100 crore this year. ₹8,409 crore for comprehensive development of Bengaluru ₹8,409 crore has further been allocated for the comprehensive development of Bengaluru city in Siddaramaiah's budget. Accident insurance of ₹4 lakh for e-commerce delivery executives Siddaramaiah also announced a total ₹4 lakh accident insurance for e-commerce delivery employees, including those working for Swiggy, Zomato and Amazon, among others. Siddaramaiah allots ₹68,479 crore to Welfare and Inclusive Growth Siddaramaiah announced the allocation made for different sectors, giving ₹33,700 crore to Agriculture and Allied Activities, ₹68,479 crore to Welfare and Inclusive Growth, ₹55,657 crore for Stimulating Economic Growth, ₹3,102 crore for the Conservation of Culture, Heritage and Natural Resources, and ₹56,170 crore for Administrative Reforms and Public Service Delivery. Will revise guidance values for all immovable properties this year: Siddaramaiah Karnataka government will also be revising the guidance values for all immovable properties across the state this year, CM Siddaramaiah said in his budget speech. Will be giving additional financial aid of ₹4000-5000 to each household: Siddaramaiah Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah in his budget speech on Friday said that the Congress government would be providing an average additional financial aid of ₹4,000 to ₹5,000 a month to each household through its five poll guarantees. Additional excise duty on beer hiked from 175% to 185%, says Siddaramaiah The Karnataka government is also set to increase the additional excise duty on beer from 175% to 185%, CM Siddaramaiah said in his budget speech. Revenue collection target fixed at ₹1,62,000 crore: Siddaramaiah CM Siddaramaiah announced that the revenue collection target has been fixed at ₹1,62,000 crore, which will be extracted from three departments: ₹1,01,000 crore from Commercial department, ₹36,000 crore from Excise department and ₹25,000 crore from Stamps and Registrations. Karnataka govt to repeal amendments to APMC Act: Siddaramaiah The Karnataka government is also set to repeal amendments made to the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) Act during the previous BJP regime, CM Siddaramaiah said in his budget announcement. The Congress government is likely to bring back the older version of the APMC Act while keeping a few provisions of the amended one. Anna Bhagya scheme to get ₹10,000 crore annually, says CM Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah also said the Anna Bhagya scheme, under which every member of a below poverty line (BPL) household would get 10 kg of free rice, got an allottment of ₹10,000 crore annually. The scheme is expected to benefit 4.42 crore beneficiaries. Gruha Lakshmi scheme gets ₹24,166 crore: Siddaramaiah The Gruha Lakshmi scheme, which provides ₹2,000 monthly assistance to the woman head of every family, got an allocation of ₹24,166 crore in Siddaramaiah's 14th budget. Siddaramaiah allots ₹100 crore for Indira canteens Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah has allotted ₹100 crore for the establishment of new Indira canteens and the development of existing canteens across the state. Food department gets ₹10,460 crore: CM Siddaramaiah The Karnataka government has allotted ₹10,460 crore to the Food department, according to CM Siddaramaiah. ₹45,000 crore for Bengaluru, announces Karnataka CM The Congress government in Karnataka has allotted ₹45,000 crore for the development works surrounding capital city Bengaluru, CM Siddaramaiah said. Siddaramaiah allots ₹30,000 crore for Namma Metro CM Siddaramaiah on Friday also said ₹30,000 crore has been allotted to the BMRCL's Namma Metro, to further developments in a bid to ease Bengaluru's ongoing traffic issues. Excise duty on liquor hiked by 20%: CM Siddaramaiah Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah in his budget presentation on Friday said that the excise duty on liquor has been hiked by 20%. This is being seen as a means for the government to extract funds to fulfil their five main poll guarantees in the southern state.