In Britain, Deco public statuary was made by Eric Gill for the BBC Broadcasting House, while Ronald Atkinson decorated the lobby of the former Daily Express Building in London (1932).
Vier majestätische Fjällkühe, weiß wie Schnee, lassen sich im Hof nieder und furzen geräuschvoll, während es langsam dunkel wird.
Aus dem Kuhstall schauen ein paar neugierige Ziegen.
Dann senkt sich Ruhe über das Weideland.
Kierkegaard was noticed by The Western Literary Messenger, Sept 1849, which wrote that everything exists for Kierkegaard in this one point, the human heart and as he reflects this changing heart in the eternal unchangeable, in that which became flesh and dwelt among us he has found a lively group of readers among the ladies.
All of the seats in the Illinois House of Representatives were up for election in 1980. Republicans flipped control of the chamber.
Jetzt registrieren und einen Monat lang kostenlos testen.
The library begun operating soon after the West Mall was opened. The library is headed by Lim Puay Ling. It is a fully computerised library with a collection of 202,151 publications. It has served more than 1,419,634 visitors and residents from the Bukit Batok and Bukit Gombak constituencies. As of 2001, it had 28,814 members and had given out 1,345,869 book loans.
Liu Kai (947-1000) was born at Daming in modern southernmost Hebei. He was known to be a highly accomplished scholar as well as a ruthless commander. Jiang Shaoyu (fl. 1115-1145) accused him of cannibalism and eating the minced livers of human beings, but this is likely a literary expression meant to evoke imagery of savageness rather than something to be taken literally.
This biographical article related to women's association football in Norway is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Toronto Islands have appeared as significant settings in Canadian literature. Examples include Margaret Atwood's The Robber Bride and Robert Rotenberg's Old City Hall.
This biographical article relating to a Canadian ice hockey defenceman born in the 1960s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The flaccid catshark (Apristurus exsanguis) is a catshark of the family Scyliorhinidae. It is endemic to the waters around New Zealand.
Lotta, die ihre Tiere genauestens kennt, weiß sofort, wo das Kleine zu finden ist, und führt die beiden zusammen.
Other Thai movies with the same title but not based on the classical poem were released in 2003 and 2012.
Das Meckern geht weiter, jetzt in der Kopfstimme.
As a teenager Gaines played in brass bands in Philadelphia. Gaines moved to New York City in 1920, where he joined the orchestra of Wilbur Sweatman. He soon signed on with Clarence Williams's house band, then played with Sam Wooding, Earl Walton, Leroy Smith, Fats Waller,  Charlie Johnson, and the Hot Chocolates.
Routiniert fuhrwerkt Lotta zwischen den schläfrigen Ziegen herum.
Ship Arriving Too Late to Save a Drowning Witch is an album by Frank Zappa, released in May 1982 and digitally remastered in 1991. It features five tracks composed by Zappa, and one song, "Valley Girl", co-written with his  daughter, Moon Zappa, then a teen, who provided the spoken monologue mocking Valley girls, including phrases like "Gag me with a spoon!".
Tortex is this company's brand name for acetal based plectra. The overall feeling of the picks is meant to mimic the feeling of a pick made from the shell of a tortoise.
The specific epithet, jacksonii, is honor of English explorer and ornithologist Frederick John Jackson, who presented the type specimen to the British Museum (Natural History).
Wir befinden uns im Naturreservat Städjan-Nipfjället im nördlichen Dalarna und unser Ziel ist die Alm Lofjätåsen.
Für zwei Tage und Nächte haben wir die Großstadt hinter uns gelassen.
The Supreme Intelligence was initially a supporting character in first run of Captain Marvel featuring the original Mar-Vell.
On January 20, Dr. Whelton, his team, and the WV Clean Water Hub briefed the Governor Tomblin's Director of Communications about citizens not flushing after a press conference at the Capitol building. The number of residents that had not flushed their plumbing systems was unknown to the Governor's office.
In some cases Octo-Pusher is also called in advance to process non-syslog messages incoming from some devices. In that regard, the device setting "asynchronous" is helpful to process such log messages, after they were sent to an Octopussy server using e.g. FTP, rsync or SSH/SCP.
Hinter einem Zaun stehen Ziegen und Zicklein in perfekter Reihe und schauen uns neugierig entgegen.
Alle in niedlichen, graugesprenkelten Anzügen und mit schönen, langen Bärten.
The movie, narrated by Peter Ustinov, was released in 1979, with a screenplay by Gerald Durrell. One of Williamson's sons, Richard, and his daughter-in-law appear in the film. It was voted the 98th greatest family film in a Channel 4 poll. The soundtrack for the film was composed by David Fanshawe and performed by Tommy Reilly.
Da steht Lotta Rosborg und ihr Sohn Erik, knapp drei Jahre alt, hängt auf ihrer Hüfte.
Die strubbeligen Haare der beiden verraten, dass sie gerade einen Mittagsschlaf gemacht haben.
Der Duft von frisch zubereitetem Kaffee breitet sich im Hof aus.
As of July 24, 2019, Virginia does not have a timetable to complete their section of Interstate 87. US 17 is a four-lane expressway between the North Carolina state line and Norfolk. State Route 168 is a four-lane expressway for approximately 1.8 miles between the state line and Battlefield Boulevard. North of Battlefield Boulevard, SR 168 is a four lane toll limited access freeway known as the Chesapeake Expressway.
The Conservatives won enough seats to form a government following the election but Harper, who became Prime Minister, only had enough seats to form a minority government meaning the opposition parties had enough seats to defeat a government motion on same-sex marriage. However, a motion could pass if it could attract enough support from individual opposition MPs in a free vote. The government announced that it would introduce a motion before the end of 2006.
Wyms went to Mississippi State and played as a Bulldog. He racked up 120 career tackles, with 69 solo tackles. He also collected 10 quarterback sacks in just 40 career games for the Mississippi State Bulldogs. Wyms started on the defensive line eight times as a senior. Wyms was the Bulldogs' top reserve player. In his first career start, against Oklahoma State, Wyms racked up six tackles. He majored in technology and education.
Zwei Monate verbringt sie hier mit dreizehn Ziegen und acht Kitzen, einem kastrierten Bock und vier Fjällkühen.
Und es gibt auch Platz für neugierige Besucher, die mehr über die uralte Almkultur erfahren wollen.
Lockruf des Mittelalters Lotta erklärt uns die wenigen Verhaltensregeln, die es auf dem Hof zu beachten gilt.
In terms of health, Mega Man no longer heals fully and automatically after each battle. Furthermore, the game introduces the SubChip, a device similar in basic concept to a battle chip but one that can only be activated outside of battle.
The contest of designing a new logo was initiated on June 22, 2020, as the old logo was a bitmap image and had "high details", leading to problems when rendering at high and low resolutions, respectively. After two rounds of voting, the new and current MediaWiki logo designed by Serhio Magpie was selected on October 24, 2020, and officially adopted on April 1, 2021.
Zola holds a Bachelor of Arts degree, with distinction, from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor (1973), and a Master of Arts degree in Counseling Psychology from Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois (1976). He earned a Master of Arts in Hebrew Letters (1981), Rabbinic Ordination (1982), a Master of Philosophy (1988) from HUC-JIR. Zola received his Ph.D. in American Jewish History from HUC-JIR in 1991.
In the late 1950s De Lory co-wrote the 1960 #1 hit novelty song "Mr. Custer", recorded by Larry Verne. As an L.A. based session musician in the early 1960s De Lory played keyboards for various Phil Spector "Wall of Sound" productions, recordings of Surf rock, and The Beach Boys' Pet Sounds.
Auf dem Weideland stehen die Hütte, in der wir wohnen, und ein schöner alter Kuhstall.
Edward Vilga (born Manchester, Connecticut) is an American wellness authority and author of books, plays, and films. His work is often themed around transformation, connections between spirituality and wealth, and the power of forgiveness and stems from his experiences as an American yoga teacher. Edward Vilga graduated from Yale University after majoring in English Literature.
The language and culture of most of the people who lived in the area that is now Holland were originally Frisian. The sparsely populated area was known as "West Friesland" (Westfriesland). As Frankish settlement progressed, the Frisians migrated away or were absorbed and the area quickly became Dutch.  (The part of North Holland situated north of Alkmaar is still colloquially known as West Friesland).
In diesem Sommer aber herrscht extreme Trockenheit mit Rekordhitze und rundherum in Dalarna und Härjedalen brennen die Wälder.
Man darf kein Feuer anzünden und die kalte Quelle hat nicht mehr genug Wasser, um das Kühlhaus zu füllen.
Der Sommer ist eine Herausforderung.
After being pranked by his students, a fed-up Adam quits Finnegan High School and takes a job in the NASA Space Program. While trying to impress his friends with his new job at NASA, Adam accidentally launches them all into outer space.
On 16 July 2014, after two years in the second tier with SD Ponferradina where he was an undisputed first choice, Juande joined Spezia Calcio from the Italian Serie B. On 26 August 2016 he returned to his homeland, signing a one-year loan deal with UCAM Murcia CF.
»Seid mal still.
The team's statistical leaders included Tom Greene with 976 passing yards, Joe Stagnone with 223 rushing yards and 18 points scored, and Dave Stecchi with 331 receiving yards.
Es ist schon später Nachmittag, ein kühler Wind streicht über die Lichtung und liebkost die hohen Baumwipfel.
Draußen auf der Weide veranstalten die jungen Zicklein ein Halligalli mit Kletterkunststücken, Stoßkämpfen und allerlei Unfug.
Mittendrin steht Erik mit einem Milchschnurrbart und hält sein Lieblingskitz Laban fest im Arm.
Nur die Kühe sind noch nicht aufgetaucht und das beunruhigt Lotta.
Keith completed his Diploma in Fine Arts at the Canterbury School of Fine Art in 1956 and worked briefly at the Christchurch Press before gaining employment at the Auckland City Art Gallery. In 1960 he completed a studentship at the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne, followed by a Museums Diploma from the Museums Association of Great Britain in 1964.[citation needed]
Fabius drew Hannibal away from Tarentum by sending the garrison of Rhegium to plunder the lands of the Bruttians and to take Caulonia. Hannibal went to the aid of the Bruttians.
Aber wenn sie nicht rechtzeitig zurückkehren, um gemolken zu werden, kann sich ihr Euter entzünden, was sowohl schmerzhaft als auch gefährlich ist.
Laxmi Narayan 1 (Tushar Kapoor) lives a poor man's lifestyle in Mumbai with his widowed mother Kanta, who wants him to be a successful gangster and would like him to kill a few people, make enough money, then marry Chota Khujli's daughter, Meena Khujli. To fulfill his mother's wish, Laxminarayan 1 accepts a contract to kill D'Mello Yadav (Mukesh Tiwari), a Pondi-based gangster, who has stolen a diamond.
Poster of the DOVO Meisterwerke in Solingen. This shows the names of the original owners (as the DOVO brand name was not yet used) and the original location of the factory.
»Das ist die Kehrseite der freien Tierhaltung«, sagt Lotta, stellt sich auf den höchsten Punkt der Weide und holt tief Luft.
Sekundenlang kommt auf der kleinen Lichtung alles zum Stillstand.
MediaWiki comes pre-installed with a standard text-based search. Extensions exist to let MediaWiki use more sophisticated third-party search engines, including Elasticsearch (which since 2014 has been in use on Wikipedia), Lucene and Sphinx.
Töne, die ich nie zuvor gehört habe, von einer urtümlichen Kraft, die mich daran erinnern, dass alles Schöne vergänglich ist.
Es handelt sich um eine spezielle Vokaltechnik namens »Kulning«, eine Art Lockruf, der seit dem Mittelalter auf den Almen benutzt wird, um das Vieh heimzuholen.
Der Gedanke daran, wie viele Frauen hier schon vor Lotta in der Dämmerung auf der Weide gestanden und nach ihren Tieren gerufen haben, ist aufregend.
Im Gesang, der mich unerwartet tief berührt, klingt die Sehnsucht nach verschwundenen Zeiten mit.
Streicheleinheiten für warme Mäuler Während sie auf die Fjälldamen wartet, zieht Lotta ihre Stallklamotten an und bereitet das Melken der Ziegen vor.
Sie bindet sich ein rotkariertes Kopftuch um und füllt einen Eimer grosszügig mit Futterpellets.
On 27 April 2020, it was announced that a third season of Junior MasterChef Australia had been commissioned for late 2020, nine years after the second series aired. Casting was open to children aged between 9 and 14 years.
This biographical article relating to an American baseball outfielder born in the 1890s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Voller Wärme erzählt sie uns von den speziellen Eigenheiten ihrer Schützlinge und zu jedem gibt es eine Geschichte.
Vojvodina is more diverse than the rest of Serbia with more than 25 ethnic groups and six languages which are in the official use by the provincial administration.
Maria Psoinos holds a PhD and an MPhil in Social Psychology from Cambridge University, UK, and a BSc in Psychology from Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece.
Man versteht immer besser, dass Lotta manchmal das Fleisch eines geschlachteten Tiers sehr lange in der Kühlung liegen lässt, bis die Trauer abgeklungen ist.
»Das ist der Lauf der Welt, wenn man mit Tieren lebt«, sagt Lotta und seufzt.
In 1900, the Franciscan Sisters, Daughters of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, based in Wheaton, Illinois, opened St. Anthony's Hospital at Grand and Chippewa in south St. Louis City. The facility was named after Anthony of Padua, an early disciple of Francis of Assisi, who patterned his life and healing ministry after the example set by Jesus Christ.
Randy John Read FRS (born 9 June 1957) is a Wellcome Trust Principal Research Fellow and Professor of Protein Crystallography at the University of Cambridge.
Tamara Sedmak was born in Baden in the canton of Aargau and spent her childhood in Obersiggenthal near Baden. In 1996, she graduated at the cantonal school of Baden with a Type B Matura. She then studied journalism, business economics and psychology at the University of Zurich. In 2001, she ended her studies graduating with a licenciate in philosophy.
Lotta bittet mich, das Melken zu übernehmen und ich versuche, mich an das zu erinnern, was ich vorhin in Lottas Almlektion, beim Melken eines glitschigen gelben Plastikhandschuhs, gelernt habe.
Jetzt steht die Ziege Greta vor mir und starrt mich an.
Eric Clapton explained that the song, along with the other studio cuts from Goodbye, were recorded due to a lack of proper live material for the album:
Blust also observed the following mergers and sound changes between Proto-Austronesian and Proto-Malayo-Polynesian.
The scheme depicted here may be shortened to 14 one-pot operations with 24% overall yield. Yet, this variation requires the use of tetrachlorothiophenedioxide instead of tetrachloro-dimethoxycyclopentadiene in two of the early steps. While lesser steps and higher yield look attractive at first sight, this approach had to be given up due to high cost and restricted availability of the dioxide.
Greta stupst mich aufmunternd an und ich fühle ihren warmen Atem, als sie mein Haar beschnuppert.
Nach ein paar winzigen Tropfen entschuldige ich mich stumm bei ihr und lasse Lotta übernehmen, mit Erik auf ihrem Schoß.
Endlich sind Kuhglocken zu hören und in der Dämmerung tauchen die vier prächtigen Fjällkühe auf.
Endlich sind Kuhglocken zu hören und in der Dämmerung tauchen die vier prächtigen Fjällkühe auf.
Majestätisch trotten sie über die Weide, einer erleichterten Lotta entgegen, die sie mit Zärtlichkeiten und Leckerbissen willkommen heißt.
»Was für tüchtige Mädchen«, flüstert Lotta ihnen lobend zu.
Die Jungziegen sind ganz aufgeregt und verwandeln die Leitkuh Ruth in ein lebendes Spielgerät, indem sie ihr immer wieder auf den Rücken springen.
Sie lässt die Kleinen gutmütig gewähren.
Die Gegenwart der Tiere ist überall spürbar: Wenn man nicht gerade ein warmes Maul streichelt, muss man zumindest einem Kuhfladen ausweichen.
Gemeinsam einsam Der Morgen ist kühl und still.
He graduated from Southern Methodist University in 2006 with a degree in Finance and Economics. Becerra swims for the Fort Worth Area Swim team in Fort Worth Texas and is coached by Ron Forrest.
The result of bottlenecks could require more work from employees as well as longer hours. In addition, there's the factor of stress and frustration with the bottlenecked machine and its operator. This could result in loss of efficiency as employees may not be very motivated to work.
His initial industrial management career was with BTR plc, where he rose to serve on the board. In 1993 he moved to become chief executive of BBA Group, where he executed strong performance improvement and portfolio change, producing a major increase in shareholder value. He later became chair of BBA (which was renamed BBA Aviation following the demerger of Fiberweb in November 2006), stepping down in 2007.
In a Wall Street Journal profile "Death Becomes Her" by Matthew Kaminski, Liam Neeson said Wojtowicz-Vosloo "reminds me a little of Kathryn Bigelow," the Oscar-winning director of The Hurt Locker. In July 2010 the filmmaker was featured in Elle magazine and on the cover of Gazeta Wyborcza, Polish newspaper.
She also appears in the Bert comics, where she has a quicker temper, and two cousins, one is named Lovisa from Gothenburg who Bert doesn't know when she arrives by train making Bert confused, and another cousin named Antonia Ridderfjell.
Es gibt Woche
