ALSO READ | Dawood Ibrahim: From Constable's Son to India's Most Wanted Man "Dawood is alive and healthy.
Even I was shocked to see this fake news.
Some users even posted screenshots of what appeared to be the account of Pakistan's caretaker Prime Minister Anwar ul Haq Kakar, which mentioned that Dawood had died.
But the message and account turned out to be fake.
The viral message read, "The Messiah of humanity, dear to every Pakistani heart, our beloved His Excellency Dawood Ibrahim passed away due to poisoned by unknown.
He breathed his last in a hospital in Karachi.
Inna Lillahi wa inna ilayhi raji'un." SON OF A POLICE CONSTABLE TO INDIA's MOST WANTED Born to a police constable in Ratnagiri, Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar has become a drug mafia in the UK and Western Europe, with a massive empire in Dubai and Karachi.
According to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), he uses 13 aliases to hide his identity.
Ibrahim flew to Dubai in 1986 to avoid criminal prosecution.
Later, these came to be known as the D-Company with nexus across India, Pakistan and Nepal.
Around this time, Shakeel became Dawood's trusted aide.
He left India in 1995-96 and has been in Pakistan since then, according to a statement by Salim Qureshi alias Salim Fruit, who was recently questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in probe against Dawood Ibrahim and his gang.
Alishah also revealed that Dawood got married for the second time and his second wife is of Pathan origin.
During a phone call, Shakeel told News18 that the D-Company predominantly moved into 'legal businesses' since the 1980s.
Over the past three decades, the businesses of D-Company have grown and their asset value is more than Rs 1 lakh crore in various currencies, according to sources.
Shakeel further said the D-Company was not interested in any new businesses as the old ones were "running well".
WHEN NEWS18 CALLED DAWOOD In 2017, CNN-News18 had sought to end the mystery surrounding Dawood's whereabouts by calling him in Karachi.
As the gangster answered the call, this correspondent identified himself, pushing Dawood into damage control mode.
