Posts claiming underworld don Dawood Ibrahim being poisoned, and admitted to a hospital in Pakistan's Karachi in a 'critical condition' has been making rounds across social media on Monday.
Besides, a nationwide internet shutdown in Pakistan has intensified the debates on the issue.
For instance, NDTV reports that some users posted screenshots of what appeared to be the account of Pakistan's caretaker Prime Minister Anwar ul Haq Kakar, which mentioned that Dawood had died.
But the message turned out to be fake, with several fact-checkers clarifying that it was not the account of Mr Kakar and there is no confirmation about Dawood.
The sources indicated that he was under tight security within the hospital.
He is the sole patient on his floor, and only top hospital authorities and his close family members have access to him, they added.
The life of Dawood Ibrahim, the mastermind of the 1993 Mumbai blasts and India's most-wanted gangster, has been shrouded in secrecy for many years.
India claims to have irrefutable evidence that Dawood is based in Karachi.
While there have been previous reports claiming that the underworld don contracted Covid-19 or suffered a heart attack and died, his gang rejected such claims and asserted that their boss was alive and well.
In 2020, media reports emerged stating that Dawood Ibrahim and his wife contracted Covid-19, with some even claiming he had succumbed to the virus.
In 2017, reports circulated that Dawood Ibrahim died of a heart attack, with some suggesting he had a brain tumor affecting his health.
Another rumor surfaced on social media in 2016, suggesting that Dawood Ibrahim had gangrene on his legs, and doctors might have had to amputate them.
A reward of $25 million has been announced by the US for information leading to his capture due to his suspected involvement in the 1993 Mumbai attacks.
Despite being one of the most wanted men in the world, Dawood Ibrahim has managed to evade capture for decades.
His influence extends beyond criminal activities, and he has been linked to financing Bollywood films.
He is also believed to have associations with various celebrities.
